---
version: v4.1.0
source_url: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/4.1.0/contribute/style/index.html
original_path: contribute/style/index.html
---

# Coding Style Guidelines

## Style Tools

### Checkpatch

The Linux kernel GPL-licensed tool `checkpatch` is used to check
coding style conformity.

Note

checkpatch does not currently run on Windows.

Checkpatch is available in the scripts directory. To invoke it when committing
code, make the file *$ZEPHYR\_BASE/.git/hooks/pre-commit* executable and edit
it to contain:

```shell
#!/bin/sh
set -e exec
exec git diff --cached | ${ZEPHYR_BASE}/scripts/checkpatch.pl -
```

Instead of running checkpatch at each commit, you may prefer to run it only
before pushing on zephyr repo. To do this, make the file
*$ZEPHYR\_BASE/.git/hooks/pre-push* executable and edit it to contain:

```shell
#!/bin/sh
remote="$1"
url="$2"

z40=0000000000000000000000000000000000000000

echo "Run push hook"

while read local_ref local_sha remote_ref remote_sha
do
    args="$remote $url $local_ref $local_sha $remote_ref $remote_sha"
    exec ${ZEPHYR_BASE}/scripts/series-push-hook.sh $args
done

exit 0
```

If you want to override checkpatch verdict and push you branch despite reported
issues, you can add option –no-verify to the git push command.

A different way for running `checkpatch` is by using [check\_compliance.py](../guidelines.md#check-compliance-py)
script, which does additional style and compliance related checks.

### clang-format

The [clang-format tool](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html) can
be helpful to quickly reformat large amounts of new source code to our
[Coding Style Guidelines](#coding-style-guidelines) standards together with the `.clang-format` configuration file
provided in the repository. `clang-format` is well integrated into most
editors, but you can also run it manually like this:

```shell
clang-format -i my_source_file.c
```

`clang-format` is part of LLVM, which can be downloaded from the project
[releases page](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/releases). Note that if
you are a Linux user, `clang-format` will likely be available as a package in
your distribution repositories.

When there are differences between the [Coding Style Guidelines](#coding-style-guidelines) guidelines and the
formatting generated by code formatting tools, the [Coding Style Guidelines](#coding-style-guidelines) guidelines
take precedence. If there is ambiguity between formatting tools and the
guidelines, maintainers may decide which style should be adopted.
