---
version: v3.7.0
source_url: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/3.7.0/connectivity/networking/api/ieee802154.html
original_path: connectivity/networking/api/ieee802154.html
---

This is the documentation for the latest (main) development branch of
Zephyr. If you are looking for the documentation of previous releases, use
the drop-down list at the bottom of the left panel and select the desired version.

# IEEE 802.15.4

## [Introduction](#id1)

IEEE 802.15.4 is a technical standard which defines the operation of low-rate
wireless personal area networks (LR-WPANs). For a more detailed overview of this
standard, see the [IEEE 802.15.4 Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_802.15.4).

The most recent version of the standard is accessible through the [IEEE GET
Program](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/browse/standards/get-program/page/series?id=68).
You need to create a free IEEE account and can then downloading it.

We’re currently following the IEEE 802.15.4-2020 specification. This version is
backwards compatible with IEEE 802.15.4-2015, parts of which are contained in
the Thread protocol stack. The 2020 version also includes prior extensions that
were accepted into the standard, namely IEEE 802.15.4g (SUN FSK) and IEEE
802.15.4e (TSCH) which are of relevance to industrial IoT and automation. For
recent developments in UWB ranging technology, see IEEE 802.15.4z which is not
yet integrated into the standard’s mainline.

Whenever sections from the standard are cited in the documentation, they refer
to IEEE 802.15.4-2020 section, table and figure numbering - unless otherwise
specified.

Zephyr supports both, native IEEE 802.15.4 and Thread, with 6LoWPAN. Zephyr’s
[Thread protocol](thread.md#thread-protocol-interface) implementation is based on [OpenThread](https://openthread.io/). The IPv6 header compression in 6LoWPAN is used for
native IEEE 802.15.4.

## [API Reference](#id2)

### [IEEE 802.15.4 API Overview](#id3)

Gives an introduction and overview over the whole IEEE 802.15.4 subsystem and
all of its APIs, configuration and user interfaces for all audiences.

Related code samples

[802.15.4 "serial-radio"](../../../samples/net/wpan_serial/README.md#wpan-serial "Implement a slip-radio device for Contiki-based border routers.")
:   Implement a slip-radio device for Contiki-based border routers.

[802.15.4 USB](../../../samples/net/wpanusb/README.md#wpan-usb "Implement a device that exposes an IEEE 802.15.4 radio over USB.")
:   Implement a device that exposes an IEEE 802.15.4 radio over USB.

*group* IEEE 802.15.4 and Thread APIs
:   IEEE 802.15.4 native and OpenThread L2, configuration, management and driver APIs.

    **Since**
    :   1.0

    **Version**
    :   0.8.0

    The IEEE 802.15.4 and Thread subsystems comprise the OpenThread L2 subsystem, the native IEEE 802.15.4 L2 subsystem (“Soft” MAC), a mostly vendor and protocol agnostic driver API shared between the OpenThread and native L2 stacks (“Hard” MAC and PHY) as well as several APIs to configure the subsystem (shell, net management, Kconfig, devicetree, etc.).

    The **OpenThread subsystem API** integrates the external [OpenThread](https://openthread.io) stack into Zephyr. It builds upon Zephyr’s native IEEE 802.15.4 driver API.

    The **native IEEE 802.15.4 subsystem APIs** are exposed at different levels and address several audiences:

    - shell (end users, application developers):

      - a set of IEEE 802.15.4 shell commands (see `[shell](../../../services/shell/index.md#structshell)> [IEEE 802.15.4 and Thread APIs](#group__ieee802154) help`)
    - application API (application developers):

      - IPv6, DGRAM and RAW sockets for actual peer-to-peer, multicast and broadcast data exchange between nodes including connection specific configuration (sample coming soon, see [https://github.com/linux-wpan/wpan-tools/tree/master/examples](https://github.com/linux-wpan/wpan-tools/tree/master/examples) for now which inspired our API and therefore has a similar socket API),
      - Kconfig and devicetree configuration options (net config library extension, subsystem-wide MAC and PHY Kconfig/DT options, driver/vendor specific Kconfig/DT options, watch out for options prefixed with IEEE802154/ieee802154),
      - Network Management: runtime configuration of the IEEE 802.15.4 protocols stack at the MAC (L2) and PHY (L1) levels (see [IEEE 802.15.4 Net Management](#group__ieee802154__mgmt)),
    - L2 integration (subsystem contributors):

      - see [IEEE 802.15.4 L2](#group__ieee802154__l2)
      - implementation of Zephyr’s internal L2-level socket and network context abstractions (context/socket operations, see [Network L2 Abstraction Layer](net_l2.md#group__net__l2)),
      - protocol-specific extension to the interface structure (see [Network Interface abstraction layer](net_if.md#group__net__if))
      - protocol-specific extensions to the network packet structure (see [Network Packet Library](net_pkt.md#group__net__pkt)),
    - OpenThread and native IEEE 802.15.4 share a common **driver API** (driver maintainers/contributors):

      - see [IEEE 802.15.4 Drivers](#group__ieee802154__driver)
      - a basic, mostly PHY-level driver API to be implemented by all drivers,
      - several “hard MAC” (hardware/firmware offloading) extension points for performance critical or timing sensitive aspects of the protocol

### [IEEE 802.15.4 Management API](#id4)

This is the main subsystem-specific API of interest to IEEE 802.15.4
**application developers** as it allows to configure the IEEE 802.15.4 subsystem
at runtime. Other relevant interfaces for application developers are the
typical shell, socket, Kconfig and devicetree APIs that can be accessed through
Zephyr’s generic subsystem-independent documentation. Look out for
IEEE802154/ieee802154 prefixes there.

*group* IEEE 802.15.4 Net Management
:   IEEE 802.15.4 net management library.

    **Since**
    :   1.0

    **Version**
    :   0.8.0

    The IEEE 802.15.4 net management library provides runtime configuration features that applications can interface with directly.

    Most of these commands are also accessible via shell commands. See the shell’s help feature (`[shell](../../../services/shell/index.md#structshell)> [IEEE 802.15.4 and Thread APIs](#group__ieee802154) help`).

    Note

    All section, table and figure references are to the IEEE 802.15.4-2020 standard.

    Command Macros

    IEEE 802.15.4 net management commands.

    These IEEE 802.15.4 subsystem net management commands can be called by applications via [Network Management](net_mgmt.md#group__net__mgmt) macro.

    All attributes and parameters are given in CPU byte order (scalars) or big endian (byte arrays) unless otherwise specified.

    The following IEEE 802.15.4 MAC management service primitives are referenced in this enumeration:

    - MLME-ASSOCIATE.request, see section 8.2.3
    - MLME-DISASSOCIATE.request, see section 8.2.4
    - MLME-SET/GET.request, see section 8.2.6
    - MLME-SCAN.request, see section 8.2.11

    The following IEEE 802.15.4 MAC data service primitives are referenced in this enumeration:

    - MLME-DATA.request, see section 8.3.2

    MAC PIB attributes (mac…/sec…): see sections 8.4.3 and 9.5. PHY PIB attributes (phy…): see section 11.3. Both are accessed through MLME-SET/GET primitives.

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_SET\_ACK
    :   Sets AckTx for all subsequent MLME-DATA (aka TX) requests.

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_UNSET\_ACK
    :   Unsets AckTx for all subsequent MLME-DATA requests.

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_PASSIVE\_SCAN
    :   MLME-SCAN(PASSIVE, …) request.

        See [ieee802154\_req\_params](#structieee802154__req__params) for associated command parameters.

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_ACTIVE\_SCAN
    :   MLME-SCAN(ACTIVE, …) request.

        See [ieee802154\_req\_params](#structieee802154__req__params) for associated command parameters.

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_CANCEL\_SCAN
    :   Cancels an ongoing MLME-SCAN(…) command (non-standard).

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_ASSOCIATE
    :   MLME-ASSOCIATE(…) request.

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_DISASSOCIATE
    :   MLME-DISASSOCIATE(…) request.

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_SET\_CHANNEL
    :   MLME-SET(phyCurrentChannel) request.

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_GET\_CHANNEL
    :   MLME-GET(phyCurrentChannel) request.

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_SET\_PAN\_ID
    :   MLME-SET(macPanId) request.

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_GET\_PAN\_ID
    :   MLME-GET(macPanId) request.

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_SET\_EXT\_ADDR
    :   Sets the extended interface address (non-standard), see sections 7.1 and 8.4.3.1, in big endian byte order.

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_GET\_EXT\_ADDR
    :   like MLME-GET(macExtendedAddress) but in big endian byte order

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_SET\_SHORT\_ADDR
    :   MLME-SET(macShortAddress) request, only allowed for co-ordinators.

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_GET\_SHORT\_ADDR
    :   MLME-GET(macShortAddress) request.

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_GET\_TX\_POWER
    :   MLME-SET(phyUnicastTxPower/phyBroadcastTxPower) request (currently not distinguished).

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_SET\_TX\_POWER
    :   MLME-GET(phyUnicastTxPower/phyBroadcastTxPower) request.

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_SET\_SECURITY\_SETTINGS
    :   Configures basic sec\* MAC PIB attributes, implies macSecurityEnabled=true.

        See [ieee802154\_security\_params](#structieee802154__security__params) for associated command parameters.

    NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_GET\_SECURITY\_SETTINGS
    :   Gets the configured sec\* attributes.

        See [ieee802154\_security\_params](#structieee802154__security__params) for associated command parameters.

    Event Macros

    IEEE 802.15.4 net management events.

    These IEEE 802.15.4 subsystem net management events can be subscribed to by applications via [net\_mgmt\_init\_event\_callback](net_mgmt.md#group__net__mgmt_1gaa1d086dcdeb54412073e287129bc50e0), [net\_mgmt\_add\_event\_callback](net_mgmt.md#group__net__mgmt_1gae53f5bbc973b0f414107eca75ac0c26f) and [net\_mgmt\_del\_event\_callback](net_mgmt.md#group__net__mgmt_1ga4960bfb01ecd891da72c57f17587f946).

    NET\_EVENT\_IEEE802154\_SCAN\_RESULT
    :   Signals the result of the [NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_ACTIVE\_SCAN](#group__ieee802154__mgmt_1gab7ad1a0db3c9a361eab52e0cf484d11b) or [NET\_REQUEST\_IEEE802154\_PASSIVE\_SCAN](#group__ieee802154__mgmt_1ga72d022935a39436e95f61cceb8001ed9) net management commands.

        See [ieee802154\_req\_params](#structieee802154__req__params) for associated event parameters.

    struct ieee802154\_req\_params
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_mgmt.h>*

        Scanning parameters.

        Used to request a scan and get results as well, see section 8.2.11.2

        Public Members

        uint32\_t channel\_set
        :   The set of channels to scan, use above macros to manage it.

        uint32\_t duration
        :   Duration of scan, per-channel, in milliseconds.

        uint16\_t channel
        :   Current channel in use as a result.

        uint16\_t pan\_id
        :   Current pan\_id in use as a result.

        uint16\_t short\_addr
        :   in CPU byte order

        uint8\_t addr[8]
        :   in big endian

        union [ieee802154\_req\_params](#c.ieee802154_req_params).[anonymous] [anonymous]
        :   Result address.

        uint8\_t len
        :   length of address

        uint8\_t lqi
        :   Link quality information, between 0 and 255.

    struct ieee802154\_security\_params
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_mgmt.h>*

        Security parameters.

        Used to setup the link-layer security settings, see tables 9-9 and 9-10 in section 9.5.

        Public Members

        uint8\_t key[16]
        :   secKeyDescriptor.secKey

        uint8\_t key\_len
        :   Key length of 16 bytes is mandatory for standards conformance.

        uint8\_t key\_mode
        :   secKeyIdMode

        uint8\_t level
        :   Used instead of a frame-specific SecurityLevel parameter when constructing the auxiliary security header.

### [IEEE 802.15.4 Driver API](#id5)

This is the main API of interest to IEEE 802.15.4 **driver developers**.

*group* IEEE 802.15.4 Drivers
:   IEEE 802.15.4 driver API.

    **Since**
    :   1.0

    **Version**
    :   0.8.0

    This API provides a common representation of vendor-specific hardware and firmware to the native IEEE 802.15.4 L2 and OpenThread stacks. **Application developers should never interface directly with this API.** It is of interest to driver maintainers only.

    The IEEE 802.15.4 driver API consists of two separate parts:

    - a basic, mostly PHY-level driver API to be implemented by all drivers,
    - several optional MAC-level extension points to offload performance critical or timing sensitive aspects at MAC level to the driver hardware or firmware (“hard” MAC).

    Implementing the basic driver API will ensure integration with the native L2 stack as well as basic support for OpenThread. Depending on the hardware, offloading to vendor-specific hardware or firmware features may be required to achieve full compliance with the Thread protocol or IEEE 802.15.4 subprotocols (e.g. fast enough ACK packages, precise timing of timed TX/RX in the TSCH or CSL subprotocols).

    Whether or not MAC-level offloading extension points need to be implemented is to be decided by individual driver maintainers. Upper layers SHOULD provide a “soft” MAC fallback whenever possible.

    Note

    All section, table and figure references are to the IEEE 802.15.4-2020 standard.

    IEEE 802.15.4, section 7.4.2: MAC header information elements

    enum ieee802154\_ie\_type
    :   Information Element Types.

        See sections 7.4.2.1 and 7.4.3.1.

        *Values:*

        enumerator IEEE802154\_IE\_TYPE\_HEADER = 0x0
        :   Header type.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_IE\_TYPE\_PAYLOAD
        :   Payload type.

    enum ieee802154\_header\_ie\_element\_id
    :   Header Information Element IDs.

        See section 7.4.2.1, table 7-7, partial list, only IEs actually used are implemented.

        *Values:*

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HEADER\_IE\_ELEMENT\_ID\_VENDOR\_SPECIFIC\_IE = 0x00
        :   Vendor specific IE.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HEADER\_IE\_ELEMENT\_ID\_CSL\_IE = 0x1a
        :   CSL IE.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HEADER\_IE\_ELEMENT\_ID\_RIT\_IE = 0x1b
        :   RIT IE.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HEADER\_IE\_ELEMENT\_ID\_RENDEZVOUS\_TIME\_IE = 0x1d
        :   Rendezvous time IE.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HEADER\_IE\_ELEMENT\_ID\_TIME\_CORRECTION\_IE = 0x1e
        :   Time correction IE.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HEADER\_IE\_ELEMENT\_ID\_HEADER\_TERMINATION\_1 = 0x7e
        :   Header termination 1.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HEADER\_IE\_ELEMENT\_ID\_HEADER\_TERMINATION\_2 = 0x7f
        :   Header termination 2.

    static inline int16\_t ieee802154\_header\_ie\_get\_time\_correction\_us(struct [ieee802154\_header\_ie\_time\_correction](#c.ieee802154_header_ie_time_correction) \*ie)
    :   Retrieve the time correction value in microseconds from a Time Correction IE, see section 7.4.2.7.

        Parameters:
        :   - **ie** – **[in]** pointer to the Time Correction IE structure

        Returns:
        :   The time correction value in microseconds.

    static inline void ieee802154\_header\_ie\_set\_element\_id(struct ieee802154\_header\_ie \*ie, uint8\_t element\_id)
    :   Set the element ID of a header IE.

        Parameters:
        :   - **ie** – **[in]** pointer to a header IE
            - **element\_id** – **[in]** IE element id in CPU byte order

    static inline uint8\_t ieee802154\_header\_ie\_get\_element\_id(struct ieee802154\_header\_ie \*ie)
    :   Get the element ID of a header IE.

        Parameters:
        :   - **ie** – **[in]** pointer to a header IE

        Returns:
        :   header IE element id in CPU byte order

    IEEE802154\_HEADER\_IE\_HEADER\_LENGTH
    :   The header IE’s header length (2 bytes).

    IEEE802154\_DEFINE\_HEADER\_IE\_VENDOR\_SPECIFIC(\_vendor\_oui, \_vendor\_specific\_info, \_vendor\_specific\_info\_len)
    :   Define a vendor specific header IE, see section 7.4.2.3.

        Example usage (all parameters in little endian):

        ```c
        uint8_t vendor_specific_info[] = {...some vendor specific IE content...};
        struct ieee802154_header_ie header_ie = IEEE802154_DEFINE_HEADER_IE_VENDOR_SPECIFIC(
            {0x9b, 0xb8, 0xea}, vendor_specific_info, sizeof(vendor_specific_info));
        ```

        Parameters:
        :   - **\_vendor\_oui** – an initializer for a 3 byte vendor oui array in little endian
            - **\_vendor\_specific\_info** – pointer to a variable length uint8\_t array with the vendor specific IE content
            - **\_vendor\_specific\_info\_len** – the length of the vendor specific IE content (in bytes)

    IEEE802154\_DEFINE\_HEADER\_IE\_CSL\_REDUCED(\_csl\_phase, \_csl\_period)
    :   Define a reduced CSL IE, see section 7.4.2.3.

        Example usage (all parameters in CPU byte order):

        ```c
        uint16_t csl_phase = ...;
        uint16_t csl_period = ...;
        struct ieee802154_header_ie header_ie =
            IEEE802154_DEFINE_HEADER_IE_CSL_REDUCED(csl_phase, csl_period);
        ```

        Parameters:
        :   - **\_csl\_phase** – CSL phase in CPU byte order
            - **\_csl\_period** – CSL period in CPU byte order

    IEEE802154\_DEFINE\_HEADER\_IE\_CSL\_FULL(\_csl\_phase, \_csl\_period, \_csl\_rendezvous\_time)
    :   Define a full CSL IE, see section 7.4.2.3.

        Example usage (all parameters in CPU byte order):

        ```c
        uint16_t csl_phase = ...;
        uint16_t csl_period = ...;
        uint16_t csl_rendezvous_time = ...;
        struct ieee802154_header_ie header_ie =
            IEEE802154_DEFINE_HEADER_IE_CSL_REDUCED(csl_phase, csl_period, csl_rendezvous_time);
        ```

        Parameters:
        :   - **\_csl\_phase** – CSL phase in CPU byte order
            - **\_csl\_period** – CSL period in CPU byte order
            - **\_csl\_rendezvous\_time** – CSL rendezvous time in CPU byte order

    IEEE802154\_DEFINE\_HEADER\_IE\_TIME\_CORRECTION(\_ack, \_time\_correction\_us)
    :   Define a Time Correction IE, see section 7.4.2.7.

        Example usage (parameter in CPU byte order):

        ```c
        uint16_t time_sync_info = ...;
        struct ieee802154_header_ie header_ie =
            IEEE802154_DEFINE_HEADER_IE_TIME_CORRECTION(true, time_sync_info);
        ```

        Parameters:
        :   - **\_ack** – whether or not the enhanced ACK frame that receives this IE is an ACK (true) or NACK (false)
            - **\_time\_correction\_us** – the positive or negative deviation from expected RX time in microseconds

    IEEE802154\_TIME\_CORRECTION\_HEADER\_IE\_LEN
    :   The length in bytes of a “Time Correction” header IE.

    IEEE802154\_HEADER\_TERMINATION\_1\_HEADER\_IE\_LEN
    :   The length in bytes of a “Header Termination 1” header IE.

    IEEE 802.15.4-2020, Section 10: General PHY requirements

    enum ieee802154\_phy\_channel\_page
    :   PHY channel pages, see section 10.1.3.

        A device driver must support the mandatory channel pages, frequency bands and channels of at least one IEEE 802.15.4 PHY.

        Channel page and number assignments have developed over several versions of the standard and are not particularly well documented. Therefore some notes about peculiarities of channel pages and channel numbering:

        - The 2006 version of the standard had a read-only phyChannelsSupported PHY PIB attribute that represented channel page/number combinations as a bitmap. This attribute was removed in later versions of the standard as the number of channels increased beyond what could be represented by a bit map. That’s the reason why it was decided to represent supported channels as a combination of channel pages and ranges instead.
        - In the 2020 version of the standard, 13 channel pages are explicitly defined, but up to 32 pages could in principle be supported. This was a hard requirement in the 2006 standard. In later standards it is implicit from field specifications, e.g. the MAC PIB attribute macChannelPage (section 8.4.3.4, table 8-100) or channel page fields used in the SRM protocol (see section 8.2.26.5).
        - ASK PHY (channel page one) was deprecated in the 2015 version of the standard. The 2020 version of the standard is a bit ambivalent whether channel page one disappeared as well or should be interpreted as O-QPSK now (see section 10.1.3.3). In Zephyr this ambivalence is resolved by deprecating channel page one.
        - For some PHYs the standard doesn’t clearly specify a channel page, namely the GFSK, RS-GFSK, CMB and TASK PHYs. These are all rather new and left out in our list as long as no driver wants to implement them.

        Warning

        The bit numbers are not arbitrary but represent the channel page numbers as defined by the standard. Therefore do not change the bit numbering.

        *Values:*

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_CHANNEL\_PAGE\_ZERO\_OQPSK\_2450\_BPSK\_868\_915 = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(0)
        :   Channel page zero supports the 2.4G channels of the O-QPSK PHY and all channels from the BPSK PHYs initially defined in the 2003 editions of the standard.

            For channel page zero, 16 channels are available in the 2450 MHz band (channels 11-26, O-QPSK), 10 in the 915 MHz band (channels 1-10, BPSK), and 1 in the 868 MHz band (channel 0, BPSK).

            You can retrieve the channels supported by a specific driver on this page via [IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_SUPPORTED\_CHANNEL\_RANGES](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ggaf4deddd3f23ebfd65fa47c5d62634430aba76daa0a70bcdd573ecbfd63ca19e7d) attribute.

            see section 10.1.3.3

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_CHANNEL\_PAGE\_ONE\_DEPRECATED = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(1)
        :   Formerly ASK PHY - deprecated in IEEE 802.15.4-2015.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_CHANNEL\_PAGE\_TWO\_OQPSK\_868\_915 = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(2)
        :   O-QPSK PHY - 868 MHz and 915 MHz bands, see section 10.1.3.3.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_CHANNEL\_PAGE\_THREE\_CSS = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(3)
        :   CSS PHY - 2450 MHz band, see section 10.1.3.4.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_CHANNEL\_PAGE\_FOUR\_HRP\_UWB = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(4)
        :   UWB PHY - SubG, low and high bands, see section 10.1.3.5.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_CHANNEL\_PAGE\_FIVE\_OQPSK\_780 = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(5)
        :   O-QPSK PHY - 780 MHz band, see section 10.1.3.2.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_CHANNEL\_PAGE\_SIX\_RESERVED = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(6)
        :   reserved - not currently assigned

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_CHANNEL\_PAGE\_SEVEN\_MSK = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(7)
        :   MSK PHY - 780 MHz and 2450 MHz bands, see sections 10.1.3.6, 10.1.3.7.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_CHANNEL\_PAGE\_EIGHT\_LRP\_UWB = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(8)
        :   LRP UWB PHY, see sections 10.1.3.8.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_CHANNEL\_PAGE\_NINE\_SUN\_PREDEFINED = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(9)
        :   SUN FSK/OFDM/O-QPSK PHYs - predefined bands, operating modes and channels, see sections 10.1.3.9.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_CHANNEL\_PAGE\_TEN\_SUN\_FSK\_GENERIC = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(10)
        :   SUN FSK/OFDM/O-QPSK PHYs - generic modulation and channel description, see sections 10.1.3.9, 7.4.4.11.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_CHANNEL\_PAGE\_ELEVEN\_OQPSK\_2380 = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(11)
        :   O-QPSK PHY - 2380 MHz band, see section 10.1.3.10.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_CHANNEL\_PAGE\_TWELVE\_LECIM = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(12)
        :   LECIM DSSS/FSK PHYs, see section 10.1.3.11.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_CHANNEL\_PAGE\_THIRTEEN\_RCC = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(13)
        :   RCC PHY, see section 10.1.3.12.

    IEEE802154\_DEFINE\_PHY\_SUPPORTED\_CHANNELS(drv\_attr, from, to)
    :   Allocate memory for the supported channels driver attribute with a single channel range constant across all driver instances.

        This is what most IEEE 802.15.4 drivers need.

        Example usage:

        ```c
        IEEE802154_DEFINE_PHY_SUPPORTED_CHANNELS(drv_attr, 11, 26);
        ```

        The attribute may then be referenced like this:

        ```c
        ... &drv_attr.phy_supported_channels ...
        ```

        See [ieee802154\_attr\_get\_channel\_page\_and\_range()](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gaf69d2b65aa46ec4483c6bab419413ba5) for a further shortcut that can be combined with this macro.

        Parameters:
        :   - **drv\_attr** – name of the local static variable to be declared for the local attributes structure
            - **from** – the first channel to be supported
            - **to** – the last channel to be supported

    IEEE 802.15.4-2020, Section 15: HRP UWB PHY

    For HRP UWB the symbol period is derived from the preamble symbol period (T\_psym), see section 11.3, table 11-1 and section 15.2.5, table 15-4 (confirmed in IEEE 802.15.4z, section 15.1). Choosing among those periods cannot be done based on channel page and channel alone. The mean pulse repetition frequency must also be known, see the ‘UwbPrf’ parameter of the MCPS-DATA.request primitive (section 8.3.2, table 8-88) and the preamble parameters for HRP-ERDEV length 91 codes (IEEE 802.15.4z, section 15.2.6.2, table 15-7b).

    enum ieee802154\_phy\_hrp\_uwb\_nominal\_prf
    :   represents the nominal pulse rate frequency of an HRP UWB PHY

        *Values:*

        enumerator IEEE802154\_PHY\_HRP\_UWB\_PRF\_OFF = 0
        :   standard modes, see section 8.3.2, table 8-88.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_PHY\_HRP\_UWB\_NOMINAL\_4\_M = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(0)

        enumerator IEEE802154\_PHY\_HRP\_UWB\_NOMINAL\_16\_M = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(1)

        enumerator IEEE802154\_PHY\_HRP\_UWB\_NOMINAL\_64\_M = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(2)

        enumerator IEEE802154\_PHY\_HRP\_UWB\_NOMINAL\_64\_M\_BPRF = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(3)
        :   enhanced ranging device (ERDEV) modes not specified in table 8-88, see IEEE 802.15.4z, section 15.1, section 15.2.6.2, table 15-7b, section 15.3.4.2 and section 15.3.4.3.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_PHY\_HRP\_UWB\_NOMINAL\_128\_M\_HPRF = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(4)

        enumerator IEEE802154\_PHY\_HRP\_UWB\_NOMINAL\_256\_M\_HPRF = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(5)

    IEEE802154\_PHY\_HRP\_UWB\_PRF4\_TPSYM\_SYMBOL\_PERIOD\_NS
    :   Nominal PRF 4MHz symbol period.

    IEEE802154\_PHY\_HRP\_UWB\_PRF16\_TPSYM\_SYMBOL\_PERIOD\_NS
    :   Nominal PRF 16MHz symbol period.

    IEEE802154\_PHY\_HRP\_UWB\_PRF64\_TPSYM\_SYMBOL\_PERIOD\_NS
    :   Nominal PRF 64MHz symbol period.

    IEEE802154\_PHY\_HRP\_UWB\_ERDEV\_TPSYM\_SYMBOL\_PERIOD\_NS
    :   ERDEV symbol period.

    IEEE802154\_PHY\_HRP\_UWB\_RDEV
    :   RDEV device mask.

    IEEE802154\_PHY\_HRP\_UWB\_ERDEV
    :   ERDEV device mask.

    IEEE 802.15.4 Driver API

    enum ieee802154\_hw\_caps
    :   IEEE 802.15.4 driver capabilities.

        Any driver properties that can be represented in binary form should be modeled as capabilities. These are called “hardware” capabilities for historical reasons but may also represent driver firmware capabilities (e.g. MAC offloading features).

        *Values:*

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HW\_ENERGY\_SCAN = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(0)
        :   Energy detection (ED) supported (optional).

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HW\_FCS = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(1)
        :   Frame checksum verification supported.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HW\_FILTER = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(2)
        :   Filtering of PAN ID, extended and short address supported.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HW\_PROMISC = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(3)
        :   Promiscuous mode supported.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HW\_CSMA = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(4)
        :   CSMA-CA procedure supported on TX.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HW\_TX\_RX\_ACK = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(5)
        :   Waits for ACK on TX if AR bit is set in TX pkt.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HW\_RETRANSMISSION = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(6)
        :   Supports retransmission on TX ACK timeout.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HW\_RX\_TX\_ACK = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(7)
        :   Sends ACK on RX if AR bit is set in RX pkt.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HW\_TXTIME = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(8)
        :   TX at specified time supported.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HW\_SLEEP\_TO\_TX = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(9)
        :   TX directly from sleep supported.

            *Deprecated:*
            :   Drivers and L2 SHALL not introduce additional references to this capability and remove existing ones as outlined in #63670.

            Note

            This HW capability does not conform to the requirements specified in #61227 as it closely couples the driver to OpenThread’s capability and device model which is different from Zephyr’s:

            - ”Sleeping” is a well defined term in Zephyr related to internal power and thread management and different from “RX off” as defined in OT.
            - Currently all OT-capable drivers have the “sleep to TX” capability anyway plus we expect future drivers to implement it ootb as well, so no information is actually conveyed by this capability.
            - The `start()`/`stop()` API of a net device controls the interface’s operational state. Drivers MUST respond with -ENETDOWN when calling `tx()` while their operational state is “DOWN”, only devices in the “UP” state MAY transmit packets (RFC 2863).
            - A migration path has been defined in #63670 for actual removal of this capability in favor of a standard compliant `configure(rx_on/rx_off)` call, see there for details.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HW\_RXTIME = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(10)
        :   Timed RX window scheduling supported.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_HW\_TX\_SEC = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(11)
        :   TX security supported (key management, encryption and authentication).

        enumerator IEEE802154\_RX\_ON\_WHEN\_IDLE = [BIT](../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(12)
        :   RxOnWhenIdle handling supported.

    enum ieee802154\_filter\_type
    :   Filter type, see [ieee802154\_radio\_api::filter](#structieee802154__radio__api_1aa9502e0e014a8d05ffe235567e8c98f3).

        *Values:*

        enumerator IEEE802154\_FILTER\_TYPE\_IEEE\_ADDR
        :   Address type filter.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_FILTER\_TYPE\_SHORT\_ADDR
        :   Short address type filter.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_FILTER\_TYPE\_PAN\_ID
        :   PAN id type filter.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_FILTER\_TYPE\_SRC\_IEEE\_ADDR
        :   Source address type filter.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_FILTER\_TYPE\_SRC\_SHORT\_ADDR
        :   Source short address type filter.

    enum ieee802154\_event
    :   Driver events, see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_EVENT\_HANDLER](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09a8d88a76f71cf8869b3e35e423b18c6f3).

        *Values:*

        enumerator IEEE802154\_EVENT\_TX\_STARTED
        :   Data transmission started.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_EVENT\_RX\_FAILED
        :   Data reception failed.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_EVENT\_RX\_OFF
        :   An RX slot ended, requires [IEEE802154\_HW\_RXTIME](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ggaf99cda89c29df3c0088fc57ec09cbcd4a68ae68c83a87f0efc25f74edd80c4600).

            Note

            This event SHALL not be triggered by drivers when RX is synchronously switched of due to a call to `stop()` or an RX slot being configured.

    enum ieee802154\_rx\_fail\_reason
    :   RX failed event reasons, see [IEEE802154\_EVENT\_RX\_FAILED](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga3491982b677941442d904ce69fce7c5eaef51197ca09befaee8cdfa2cde107273).

        *Values:*

        enumerator IEEE802154\_RX\_FAIL\_NOT\_RECEIVED
        :   Nothing received.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_RX\_FAIL\_INVALID\_FCS
        :   Frame had invalid checksum.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_RX\_FAIL\_ADDR\_FILTERED
        :   Address did not match.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_RX\_FAIL\_OTHER
        :   General reason.

    enum ieee802154\_tx\_mode
    :   IEEE 802.15.4 Transmission mode.

        *Values:*

        enumerator IEEE802154\_TX\_MODE\_DIRECT
        :   Transmit packet immediately, no CCA.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_TX\_MODE\_CCA
        :   Perform CCA before packet transmission.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_TX\_MODE\_CSMA\_CA
        :   Perform full CSMA/CA procedure before packet transmission.

            Note

            requires IEEE802154\_HW\_CSMA capability.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_TX\_MODE\_TXTIME
        :   Transmit packet in the future, at the specified time, no CCA.

            Note

            requires IEEE802154\_HW\_TXTIME capability.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_TX\_MODE\_TXTIME\_CCA
        :   Transmit packet in the future, perform CCA before transmission.

            Note

            requires IEEE802154\_HW\_TXTIME capability.

            Note

            Required for Thread 1.2 Coordinated Sampled Listening feature (see Thread specification 1.2.0, ch. 3.2.6.3).

        enumerator IEEE802154\_TX\_MODE\_COMMON\_COUNT
        :   Number of modes defined in [ieee802154\_tx\_mode](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gab2bee8752291e082cb277145cef1225d).

        enumerator IEEE802154\_TX\_MODE\_PRIV\_START = [IEEE802154\_TX\_MODE\_COMMON\_COUNT](#c.ieee802154_tx_mode.IEEE802154_TX_MODE_COMMON_COUNT)
        :   This and higher values are specific to the protocol- or driver-specific extensions.

    enum ieee802154\_fpb\_mode
    :   IEEE 802.15.4 Frame Pending Bit table address matching mode.

        *Values:*

        enumerator IEEE802154\_FPB\_ADDR\_MATCH\_THREAD
        :   The pending bit shall be set only for addresses found in the list.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_FPB\_ADDR\_MATCH\_ZIGBEE
        :   The pending bit shall be cleared for short addresses found in the list.

    enum ieee802154\_config\_type
    :   IEEE 802.15.4 driver configuration types.

        *Values:*

        enumerator IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_AUTO\_ACK\_FPB
        :   Indicates how the driver should set the Frame Pending bit in ACK responses for Data Requests.

            If enabled, the driver should determine whether to set the bit or not based on the information provided with [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_ACK\_FPB](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09ab897aea56ea5e9ddf306c5c0d75c2cd7) config and FPB address matching mode specified. Otherwise, Frame Pending bit should be set to `1` (see section 6.7.3).

            Note

            requires [IEEE802154\_HW\_TX\_RX\_ACK](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ggaf99cda89c29df3c0088fc57ec09cbcd4ab383a932c0ac9deece68f02210089119) capability and is available in any interface operational state.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_ACK\_FPB
        :   Indicates whether to set ACK Frame Pending bit for specific address or not.

            Disabling the Frame Pending bit with no address provided (NULL pointer) should disable it for all enabled addresses.

            Note

            requires [IEEE802154\_HW\_TX\_RX\_ACK](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ggaf99cda89c29df3c0088fc57ec09cbcd4ab383a932c0ac9deece68f02210089119) capability and is available in any interface operational state.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_PAN\_COORDINATOR
        :   Indicates whether the device is a PAN coordinator.

            This influences packet filtering.

            Note

            Available in any interface operational state.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_PROMISCUOUS
        :   Enable/disable promiscuous mode.

            Note

            Available in any interface operational state.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_EVENT\_HANDLER
        :   Specifies new IEEE 802.15.4 driver event handler.

            Specifying NULL as a handler will disable events notification.

            Note

            Available in any interface operational state.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_MAC\_KEYS
        :   Updates MAC keys, key index and the per-key frame counter for drivers supporting transmit security offloading, see section 9.5, tables 9-9 and 9-10.

            The key configuration SHALL NOT be accepted if the frame counter (in case frame counter per key is true) is not strictly larger than the current frame counter associated with the same key, see sections 8.2.2, 9.2.4 g/h) and 9.4.3.

            Note

            Requires [IEEE802154\_HW\_TX\_SEC](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ggaf99cda89c29df3c0088fc57ec09cbcd4a7924c3d5bfe6dceeb2e8caa6df7edecb) capability and is available in any interface operational state.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_FRAME\_COUNTER
        :   Sets the current MAC frame counter value associated with the interface for drivers supporting transmit security offloading, see section 9.5, table 9-8, secFrameCounter.

            Note

            Requires [IEEE802154\_HW\_TX\_SEC](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ggaf99cda89c29df3c0088fc57ec09cbcd4a7924c3d5bfe6dceeb2e8caa6df7edecb) capability and is available in any interface operational state.

            Warning

            The frame counter MUST NOT be accepted if it is not strictly greater than the current frame counter associated with the interface, see sections 8.2.2, 9.2.4 g/h) and 9.4.3. Otherwise the replay protection provided by the frame counter may be compromised. Drivers SHALL return -EINVAL in case the configured frame counter does not conform to this requirement.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_FRAME\_COUNTER\_IF\_LARGER
        :   Sets the current MAC frame counter value if the provided value is greater than the current one.

            Note

            Requires [IEEE802154\_HW\_TX\_SEC](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ggaf99cda89c29df3c0088fc57ec09cbcd4a7924c3d5bfe6dceeb2e8caa6df7edecb) capability and is available in any interface operational state.

            Warning

            This configuration option does not conform to the requirements specified in #61227 as it is redundant with [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_FRAME\_COUNTER](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09aad7d04b7e1c02b2d88fcbb8ab1ac313b), and will therefore be deprecated in the future.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_RX\_SLOT
        :   Set or unset a radio reception window (RX slot).

            This can be used for any scheduled reception, e.g.: Zigbee GP device, CSL, TSCH, etc.

            The start and duration parameters of the RX slot are relative to the network subsystem’s local clock. If the start parameter of the RX slot is -1 then any previously configured RX slot SHALL be canceled immediately. If the start parameter is any value in the past (including 0) or the duration parameter is zero then the receiver SHALL remain off forever until the RX slot has either been removed or re-configured to point to a future start time. If an RX slot is configured while the previous RX slot is still scheduled, then the previous slot SHALL be cancelled and the new slot scheduled instead.

            RX slots MAY be programmed while the driver is “DOWN”. If any past or future RX slot is configured when calling `start()` then the interface SHALL be placed in “UP” state but the receiver SHALL not be started.

            The driver SHALL take care to start/stop the receiver autonomously, asynchronously and automatically around the RX slot. The driver SHALL resume power just before the RX slot and suspend it again after the slot unless another programmed event forces the driver not to suspend. The driver SHALL switch to the programmed channel before the RX slot and back to the channel set with set\_channel() after the RX slot. If the driver interface is “DOWN” when the start time of an RX slot arrives, then the RX slot SHALL not be observed and the receiver SHALL remain off.

            If the driver is “UP” while configuring an RX slot, the driver SHALL turn off the receiver immediately and (possibly asynchronously) put the driver into the lowest possible power saving mode until the start of the RX slot. If the driver is “UP” while the RX slot is deleted, then the driver SHALL enable the receiver immediately. The receiver MUST be ready to receive packets before returning from the `configure()` operation in this case.

            This behavior means that setting an RX slot implicitly sets the MAC PIB attribute macRxOnWhenIdle (see section 8.4.3.1, table 8-94) to “false” while deleting the RX slot implicitly sets macRxOnWhenIdle to “true”.

            Note

            requires [IEEE802154\_HW\_RXTIME](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ggaf99cda89c29df3c0088fc57ec09cbcd4a68ae68c83a87f0efc25f74edd80c4600) capability and is available in any interface operational state.

            Note

            Required for Thread 1.2 Coordinated Sampled Listening feature (see Thread specification 1.2.0, ch. 3.2.6.3).

        enumerator IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_CSL\_PERIOD
        :   Enables or disables a device as a CSL receiver and configures its CSL period.

            Configures the CSL period in units of 10 symbol periods. Values greater than zero enable CSL if the driver supports it and the device starts to operate as a CSL receiver. Setting this to zero disables CSL on the device. If the driver does not support CSL, the configuration call SHALL return -ENOTSUP.

            See section 7.4.2.3 and section 8.4.3.6, table 8-104, macCslPeriod.

            To offload CSL receiver timing to the driver the upper layer SHALL combine several configuration options in the following way:

            1. Use [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_ENH\_ACK\_HEADER\_IE](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09a840e5f1db9a354e7bcd892ddb4117907) once with an appropriate pre-filled CSL IE and the CSL phase set to an arbitrary value or left uninitialized. The CSL phase SHALL be injected on-the-fly by the driver at runtime as outlined in 2. below. Adding a short and extended address will inform the driver of the specific CSL receiver to which it SHALL inject CSL IEs. If no addresses are given then the CSL IE will be injected into all enhanced ACK frames as soon as CSL is enabled. This configuration SHALL be done before enabling CSL by setting a CSL period greater than zero.
            2. Configure [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_EXPECTED\_RX\_TIME](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09a1a71ef76d90b6882196e4c6473de6bd8) immediately followed by [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_CSL\_PERIOD](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09a9fdbe95e0b7141d9150eaa4a5793c2e7). To prevent race conditions, the upper layer SHALL ensure that the receiver is not enabled during or between the two calls (e.g. by a previously configured RX slot) nor SHALL a frame be transmitted concurrently.

               The expected RX time SHALL point to the end of SFD of an ideally timed RX frame in an arbitrary past or future CSL channel sample, i.e. whose “end of SFD” arrives exactly at the locally predicted time inside the CSL channel sample.

               The driver SHALL derive CSL anchor points and the CSL phase from the given expected RX time as follows:

               ```text
               cslAnchorPointNs = last expected RX time
                                  + PHY-specific PHR duration in ns

               startOfMhrNs = start of MHR of the frame containing the
                              CSL IE relative to the local network clock

               cslPhase = (startOfMhrNs - cslAnchorPointNs)
                          / (10 * PHY specific symbol period in ns)
                          % cslPeriod
               ```

               The driver SHALL set the CSL phase in the IE configured in 1. and inject that IE on-the-fly into outgoing enhanced ACK frames if the destination address conforms to the IE’s address filter.
            3. Use [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_RX\_SLOT](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09af4e3dd7588ee06458f2d42f02797b3d6) periodically to schedule each CSL channel sample early enough before its start time. The size of the CSL channel sample SHALL take relative clock drift and scheduling uncertainties with respect to CSL transmitters into account as specified by the standard such that at least the full SHR of a legitimate RX frame is guaranteed to land inside the channel sample.

               To this avail, the last configured expected RX time plus an integer number of CSL periods SHALL point to a fixed offset of the RX slot (not necessarily its center):

               ```text
               expectedRxTimeNs_N = last expected RX time
                   + N * (cslPeriod * 10 * PHY-specific symbol period in ns)

               expectedRxTimeNs_N - rxSlot_N.start == const for all N
               ```

               While the configured CSL period is greater than zero, drivers SHOULD validate the offset of the expected RX time inside each RX slot accordingly. If the driver finds that the offset varies from slot to slot, drivers SHOULD log the difference but SHALL nevertheless accept and schedule the RX slot with a zero success value to work around minor implementation or rounding errors in upper layers.

            Configure and start a CSL receiver:

            ```text
            ENH_ACK_HEADER_IE
               |
               | EXPECTED_RX_TIME (end of SFD of a perfectly timed RX frame
               |    |              in any past or future channel sample)
               |    |
               |    | CSL_PERIOD (>0)            RX_SLOT
               |    |    |                          |
               v    v    v                          v
            -----------------------------------------------[-CSL channel sample ]----+
                                                ^                                    |
                                                |                                    |
                                                +--------------------- loop ---------+
            ```

            Disable CSL on the receiver:

            ```text
            CSL_PERIOD (=0)
               |
               v
            ---------------------
            ```

            Update the CSL period to a new value:

            ```text
            EXPECTED_RX_TIME (based on updated period)
               |
               |  CSL_PERIOD (>0, updated)       RX_SLOT
               |     |                              |
               v     v                              v
            -----------------------------------------------[-CSL channel sample ]----+
                                                ^                                    |
                                                |                                    |
                                                +--------------------- loop ---------+
            ```

            Note

            Confusingly the standard calls the CSL receiver “CSL

            coordinator” (i.e. “coordinating the CSL protocol timing”, see section 6.12.2.2), although, typically, a CSL coordinator is NOT also an IEEE 802.15.4 FFD coordinator or PAN coordintor but a simple RFD end device (compare the device roles outlined in sections 5.1, 5.3, 5.5 and 6.1). To avoid confusion we therefore prefer calling CSL coordinators (typically an RFD end device) “CSL receivers” and CSL peer devices (typically FFD coordinators or PAN coordinators) “CSL

            transmitters”. Also note that at this time, we do NOT support unsynchronized transmission with CSL wake up frames as specified in section 6.12.2.4.4.

            Note

            Available in any interface operational state.

            Note

            Required for Thread 1.2 Coordinated Sampled Listening feature (see Thread specification 1.2.0, ch. 3.2.6.3).

        enumerator IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_EXPECTED\_RX\_TIME
        :   Configure a timepoint at which an RX frame is expected to arrive.

            Configure the nanosecond resolution timepoint relative to the network subsystem’s local clock at which an RX frame’s end of SFD (i.e. equivalently its end of SHR, start of PHR, or in the case of PHYs with RDEV or ERDEV capability the RMARKER) is expected to arrive at the local antenna assuming perfectly synchronized local and remote network clocks and zero distance between antennas.

            This parameter MAY be used to offload parts of timing sensitive TDMA (e.g. TSCH, beacon-enabled PAN including DSME), low-energy (e.g. CSL, RIT) or ranging (TDoA) protocols to the driver. In these protocols, medium access is tightly controlled such that the expected arrival time of a frame can be predicted within a well-defined time window. This feature will typically be combined with [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_RX\_SLOT](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09af4e3dd7588ee06458f2d42f02797b3d6) although this is not a hard requirement.

            The “expected RX time” MAY be interpreted slightly differently depending on the protocol context:

            - CSL phase (i.e. time to the next expected CSL transmission) or anchor time (i.e. any arbitrary timepoint with “zero CSL phase”) SHALL be derived by adding the PHY header duration to the expected RX time to calculate the “start of MHR” (“first symbol of MAC”, see section 6.12.2.1) required by the CSL protocol, compare [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_CSL\_PERIOD](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09a9fdbe95e0b7141d9150eaa4a5793c2e7).
            - In TSCH the expected RX time MAY be set to macTsRxOffset + macTsRxWait / 2. Then the time correction SHALL be calculated as the expected RX time minus actual arrival timestamp, see section 6.5.4.3.
            - In ranging applications, time difference of arrival (TDOA) MAY be calculated inside the driver comparing actual RMARKER timestamps against the assumed synchronized time at which the ranging frame was sent, see IEEE 802.15.4z.

            In case of periodic protocols (e.g. CSL channel samples, periodic beacons of a single PAN, periodic ranging “blinks”), a single timestamp at any time in the past or in the future may be given from which other expected timestamps can be derived by adding or subtracting multiples of the RX period. See e.g. the CSL documentation in this API.

            Additionally this parameter MAY be used by drivers to discipline their local representation of a distributed network clock by deriving synchronization instants related to a remote representation of the same clock (as in PTP).

            Note

            Available in any interface operational state.

            Note

            Required for Thread 1.2 Coordinated Sampled Listening feature (see Thread specification 1.2.0, ch. 3.2.6.3).

        enumerator IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_ENH\_ACK\_HEADER\_IE
        :   Adds a header information element (IE) to be injected into enhanced ACK frames generated by the driver if the given destination address filter matches.

            Drivers implementing the [IEEE802154\_HW\_RX\_TX\_ACK](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ggaf99cda89c29df3c0088fc57ec09cbcd4aec16c4d418117de2d106e84297568b03) capability generate ACK frames autonomously. Setting this configuration will ask the driver to inject the given preconfigured header IE when generating enhanced ACK frames where appropriate by the standard. IEs for all other frame types SHALL be provided by L2.

            The driver shall return -ENOTSUP in the following cases:

            - It does not support the [IEEE802154\_HW\_RX\_TX\_ACK](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ggaf99cda89c29df3c0088fc57ec09cbcd4aec16c4d418117de2d106e84297568b03),
            - It does not support header IE injection,
            - It cannot inject the runtime fields on-the-fly required for the given IE element ID (see list below).

            Enhanced ACK header IEs (element IDs in parentheses) that either need to be rejected or explicitly supported and parsed by the driver because they require on-the-fly timing information injection are:

            - CSL IE (0x1a)
            - Rendezvous Time IE (0x1d)
            - Time Correction IE (0x1e)

            Drivers accepting this configuration option SHALL check the list of configured IEs for each outgoing enhanced ACK frame, select the ones appropriate for the received frame based on their element ID, inject any required runtime information on-the-fly and include the selected IEs into the enhanced ACK frame’s MAC header.

            Drivers supporting enhanced ACK header IE injection SHALL autonomously inject header termination IEs as required by the standard.

            A destination short address and extended address MAY be given by L2 to filter the devices to which the given IE is included. Setting the short address to the broadcast address and the extended address to NULL will inject the given IE into all ACK frames unless a more specific filter is also present for any given destination device (fallback configuration). L2 SHALL take care to either set both address fields to valid device addresses or none.

            This configuration type may be called several times with distinct element IDs and/or addresses. The driver SHALL either store all configured IE/address combinations or return -ENOMEM if no additional configuration can be stored.

            Configuring a header IE with a previously configured element ID and address filter SHALL override the previous configuration. This implies that repetition of the same header IE/address combination is NOT supported.

            Configuring an existing element ID/address filter combination with the header IE’s length field set to zero SHALL remove that configuration. SHALL remove the fallback configuration if no address is given.

            Configuring a header IE for an address filter with the header IE pointer set to NULL SHALL remove all header IE’s for that address filter. SHALL remove ALL header IE configuration (including but not limited to fallbacks) if no address is given.

            If any of the deleted configurations didn’t previously exist, then the call SHALL be ignored. Whenever the length field is set to zero, the content fields MUST NOT be accessed by the driver.

            L2 SHALL minimize the space required to keep IE configuration inside the driver by consolidating address filters and by removing configuration that is no longer required.

            Note

            requires [IEEE802154\_HW\_RX\_TX\_ACK](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ggaf99cda89c29df3c0088fc57ec09cbcd4aec16c4d418117de2d106e84297568b03) capability and is available in any interface operational state. Currently we only support header IEs but that may change in the future.

            Note

            Required for Thread 1.2 Coordinated Sampled Listening feature (see Thread specification 1.2.0, ch. 3.2.6.3).

            Note

            Required for Thread 1.2 Link Metrics feature (see Thread specification 1.2.0, ch. 4.11.3.3).

        enumerator IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_RX\_ON\_WHEN\_IDLE
        :   Enable/disable RxOnWhenIdle MAC PIB attribute (Table 8-94).

            Since there is no clear guidance in IEEE 802.15.4 specification about the definition of an “idle period”, this implementation expects that drivers use the RxOnWhenIdle attribute to determine next radio state (false –> off, true –> receive) in the following scenarios:

            - Finalization of a regular frame reception task, provided that:

              - The frame is received without errors and passes the filtering and it’s not an spurious ACK.
              - ACK is not requested or transmission of ACK is not possible due to internal conditions.
            - Finalization of a frame transmission or transmission of an ACK frame, when ACK is not requested in the transmitted frame.
            - Finalization of the reception operation of a requested ACK due to:

              - ACK timeout expiration.
              - Reception of an invalid ACK or not an ACK frame.
              - Reception of the proper ACK, unless the transmitted frame was a Data Request Command and the frame pending bit on the received ACK is set to true. In this case the radio platform implementation SHOULD keep the receiver on until a determined timeout which triggers an idle period start.
            - Finalization of a stand alone CCA task.
            - Finalization of a CCA operation with busy result during CSMA/CA procedure.
            - Finalization of an Energy Detection task.
            - Finalization of a scheduled radio reception window (see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_RX\_SLOT](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09af4e3dd7588ee06458f2d42f02797b3d6)).

        enumerator IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_COMMON\_COUNT
        :   Number of types defined in [ieee802154\_config\_type](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09).

        enumerator IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_PRIV\_START = [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_COMMON\_COUNT](#c.ieee802154_config_type.IEEE802154_CONFIG_COMMON_COUNT)
        :   This and higher values are specific to the protocol- or driver-specific extensions.

    enum ieee802154\_attr
    :   IEEE 802.15.4 driver attributes.

        See [ieee802154\_attr\_value](#structieee802154__attr__value) and [ieee802154\_radio\_api](#structieee802154__radio__api) for usage details.

        *Values:*

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_SUPPORTED\_CHANNEL\_PAGES
        :   Retrieves a bit field with supported channel pages.

            This attribute SHALL be implemented by all drivers.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_SUPPORTED\_CHANNEL\_RANGES
        :   Retrieves a pointer to the array of supported channel ranges within the currently configured channel page.

            This attribute SHALL be implemented by all drivers.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_HRP\_UWB\_SUPPORTED\_PRFS
        :   Retrieves a bit field with supported HRP UWB nominal pulse repetition frequencies.

            This attribute SHALL be implemented by all devices that support channel page four (HRP UWB).

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_COMMON\_COUNT
        :   Number of attributes defined in [ieee802154\_attr](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gaf4deddd3f23ebfd65fa47c5d62634430).

        enumerator IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PRIV\_START = [IEEE802154\_ATTR\_COMMON\_COUNT](#c.ieee802154_attr.IEEE802154_ATTR_COMMON_COUNT)
        :   This and higher values are specific to the protocol- or driver-specific extensions.

    typedef void (\*energy\_scan\_done\_cb\_t)(const struct [device](../../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev, int16\_t max\_ed)
    :   Energy scan callback.

    typedef void (\*ieee802154\_event\_cb\_t)(const struct [device](../../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev, enum [ieee802154\_event](#c.ieee802154_event) evt, void \*event\_params)
    :   Driver event callback.

    static inline int ieee802154\_attr\_get\_channel\_page\_and\_range(enum [ieee802154\_attr](#c.ieee802154_attr) attr, const enum [ieee802154\_phy\_channel\_page](#c.ieee802154_phy_channel_page) phy\_supported\_channel\_page, const struct [ieee802154\_phy\_supported\_channels](#c.ieee802154_phy_supported_channels) \*phy\_supported\_channels, struct [ieee802154\_attr\_value](#c.ieee802154_attr_value) \*value)
    :   Helper function to handle channel page and range to be called from drivers’ attr\_get() implementation.

        This only applies to drivers with a single channel page.

        Parameters:
        :   - **attr** – The attribute to be retrieved.
            - **phy\_supported\_channel\_page** – The driver’s unique channel page.
            - **phy\_supported\_channels** – Pointer to the structure that contains the driver’s channel range or ranges.
            - **value** – The pointer to the value struct provided by the user.

        Return values:
        :   - **0** – if the attribute could be resolved
            - **-ENOENT** – if the attribute could not be resolved

    IEEE802154\_HW\_CAPS\_BITS\_COMMON\_COUNT
    :   Number of bits used by [ieee802154\_hw\_caps](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gaf99cda89c29df3c0088fc57ec09cbcd4) type.

    IEEE802154\_HW\_CAPS\_BITS\_PRIV\_START
    :   This and higher values are specific to the protocol- or driver-specific extensions.

    IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_RX\_SLOT\_NONE
    :   Configuring an RX slot with the start parameter set to this value will cancel and delete any previously configured RX slot.

    IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_RX\_SLOT\_OFF
    :   Configuring an RX slot with this start parameter while the driver is “down”, will keep RX off when the driver is being started.

        Configuring an RX slot with this start value while the driver is “up” will immediately switch RX off until either the slot is deleted, see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_RX\_SLOT\_NONE](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ga1cb6434a3a7555fe9d35c73b698cbf10) or a slot with a future start parameter is configured and that start time arrives.

    IEEE 802.15.4 driver utils

    static inline bool ieee802154\_is\_ar\_flag\_set(struct [net\_buf](net_buf.md#c.net_buf "net_buf") \*frag)
    :   Check if the AR flag is set on the frame inside the given [Network Packet Library](net_pkt.md#group__net__pkt).

        Parameters:
        :   - **frag** – A valid pointer on a [net\_buf](net_buf.md#structnet__buf) structure, must not be NULL, and its length should be at least 1 byte (ImmAck frames are the shortest supported frames with 3 bytes excluding FCS).

        Returns:
        :   true if AR flag is set, false otherwise

    IEEE 802.15.4 driver callbacks

    enum [net\_verdict](net_core.md#c.net_verdict "net_verdict") ieee802154\_handle\_ack(struct [net\_if](net_if.md#c.net_if "net_if") \*iface, struct [net\_pkt](net_pkt.md#c.net_pkt "net_pkt") \*pkt)
    :   IEEE 802.15.4 driver ACK handling callback into L2 that drivers must call when receiving an ACK package.

        The IEEE 802.15.4 standard prescribes generic procedures for ACK handling on L2 (MAC) level. L2 stacks therefore have to provides a fast and re-usable generic implementation of this callback for drivers to call when receiving an ACK packet.

        Note: This function is part of Zephyr’s 802.15.4 stack driver -> L2 “inversion-of-control” adaptation API and must be implemented by all IEEE 802.15.4 L2 stacks.

        Warning

        Deviating from other functions in the net stack returning [net\_verdict](net_core.md#group__net__core_1ga8e5393f3bdd85491f221324e637c3896), this function will not unref the package even if it returns NET\_OK.

        Parameters:
        :   - **iface** – A valid pointer on a network interface that received the packet
            - **pkt** – A valid pointer on a packet to check

        Returns:
        :   NET\_OK if L2 handles the ACK package, NET\_CONTINUE or NET\_DROP otherwise.

    void ieee802154\_init(struct [net\_if](net_if.md#c.net_if "net_if") \*iface)
    :   IEEE 802.15.4 driver initialization callback into L2 called by drivers to initialize the active L2 stack for a given interface.

        Drivers must call this function as part of their own initialization routine.

        Note: This function is part of Zephyr’s 802.15.4 stack driver -> L2 “inversion-of-control” adaptation API and must be implemented by all IEEE 802.15.4 L2 stacks.

        Parameters:
        :   - **iface** – A valid pointer on a network interface

    IEEE 802.15.4-2020, Section 6: MAC functional description

    IEEE802154\_PHY\_SYMBOLS\_PER\_SECOND(symbol\_period\_ns)
    :   The symbol period (and therefore symbol rate) is defined in section 6.1: “Some of the timing parameters in definition of the MAC are in units of PHY symbols.

        For PHYs that have multiple symbol periods, the duration to be used for the MAC parameters is defined in that PHY clause.”

        This is not necessarily the true physical symbol period, so take care to use this macro only when either the symbol period used for MAC timing is the same as the physical symbol period or if you actually mean the MAC timing symbol period.

        PHY specific symbol periods are defined in PHY specific sections below.

    IEEE 802.15.4-2020, Section 8: MAC services

    IEEE802154\_MAC\_A\_BASE\_SLOT\_DURATION
    :   The number of PHY symbols forming a superframe slot when the superframe order is equal to zero, see sections 8.4.2, table 8-93, aBaseSlotDuration and section 6.2.1.

    IEEE802154\_MAC\_A\_NUM\_SUPERFRAME\_SLOTS
    :   The number of slots contained in any superframe, see section 8.4.2, table 8-93, aNumSuperframeSlots.

    IEEE802154\_MAC\_A\_BASE\_SUPERFRAME\_DURATION
    :   The number of PHY symbols forming a superframe when the superframe order is equal to zero, see section 8.4.2, table 8-93, aBaseSuperframeDuration.

    IEEE802154\_MAC\_A\_UNIT\_BACKOFF\_PERIOD(turnaround\_time)
    :   MAC PIB attribute aUnitBackoffPeriod, see section 8.4.2, table 8-93, in symbol periods, valid for all PHYs except SUN PHY in the 920 MHz band.

    IEEE802154\_MAC\_RESPONSE\_WAIT\_TIME\_DEFAULT
    :   Default macResponseWaitTime in multiples of aBaseSuperframeDuration as defined in section 8.4.3.1, table 8-94.

    IEEE 802.15.4-2020, Section 11: PHY services

    IEEE802154\_PHY\_A\_TURNAROUND\_TIME\_DEFAULT
    :   Default PHY PIB attribute aTurnaroundTime, in PHY symbols, see section 11.3, table 11-1.

    IEEE802154\_PHY\_A\_TURNAROUND\_TIME\_1MS(symbol\_period\_ns)
    :   PHY PIB attribute aTurnaroundTime for SUN, RS-GFSK, TVWS, and LECIM FSK PHY, in PHY symbols, see section 11.3, table 11-1.

    IEEE802154\_PHY\_A\_CCA\_TIME
    :   PHY PIB attribute aCcaTime, in PHY symbols, all PHYs except for SUN O-QPSK, see section 11.3, table 11-1.

    IEEE 802.15.4-2020, Section 12: O-QPSK PHY

    IEEE802154\_PHY\_OQPSK\_868MHZ\_SYMBOL\_PERIOD\_NS
    :   O-QPSK 868Mhz band symbol period, see section 12.3.3.

    IEEE802154\_PHY\_OQPSK\_780\_TO\_2450MHZ\_SYMBOL\_PERIOD\_NS
    :   O-QPSK 780MHz, 915MHz, 2380MHz and 2450MHz bands symbol period, see section 12.3.3.

    IEEE 802.15.4-2020, Section 13: BPSK PHY

    IEEE802154\_PHY\_BPSK\_868MHZ\_SYMBOL\_PERIOD\_NS
    :   BPSK 868MHz band symbol period, see section 13.3.3.

    IEEE802154\_PHY\_BPSK\_915MHZ\_SYMBOL\_PERIOD\_NS
    :   BPSK 915MHz band symbol period, see section 13.3.3.

    IEEE 802.15.4-2020, Section 19: SUN FSK PHY

    IEEE802154\_PHY\_SUN\_FSK\_863MHZ\_915MHZ\_SYMBOL\_PERIOD\_NS
    :   SUN FSK 863Mhz and 915MHz band symbol periods, see section 19.1, table 19-1.

    IEEE802154\_PHY\_SUN\_FSK\_PHR\_LEN
    :   SUN FSK PHY header length, in bytes, see section 19.2.4.

    struct ieee802154\_header\_ie\_vendor\_specific
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_ie.h>*

        Vendor Specific Header IE, see section 7.4.2.3.

        Public Members

        uint8\_t vendor\_oui[IEEE802154\_VENDOR\_SPECIFIC\_IE\_OUI\_LEN]
        :   Vendor OUI.

        uint8\_t \*vendor\_specific\_info
        :   Vendor specific information.

    struct ieee802154\_header\_ie\_csl\_full
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_ie.h>*

        Full CSL IE, see section 7.4.2.3.

        Public Members

        uint16\_t csl\_phase
        :   CSL phase.

        uint16\_t csl\_period
        :   CSL period.

        uint16\_t csl\_rendezvous\_time
        :   Rendezvous time.

    struct ieee802154\_header\_ie\_csl\_reduced
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_ie.h>*

        Reduced CSL IE, see section 7.4.2.3.

        Public Members

        uint16\_t csl\_phase
        :   CSL phase.

        uint16\_t csl\_period
        :   CSL period.

    struct ieee802154\_header\_ie\_csl
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_ie.h>*

        Generic CSL IE, see section 7.4.2.3.

        Public Members

        struct [ieee802154\_header\_ie\_csl\_full](#c.ieee802154_header_ie_csl_full) full
        :   CSL full information.

        struct [ieee802154\_header\_ie\_csl\_reduced](#c.ieee802154_header_ie_csl_reduced) reduced
        :   CSL reduced information.

    struct ieee802154\_header\_ie\_rit
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_ie.h>*

        RIT IE, see section 7.4.2.4.

        Public Members

        uint8\_t time\_to\_first\_listen
        :   Time to First Listen.

        uint8\_t number\_of\_repeat\_listen
        :   Number of Repeat Listen.

        uint16\_t repeat\_listen\_interval
        :   Repeat listen interval.

    struct ieee802154\_header\_ie\_rendezvous\_time\_full
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_ie.h>*

        Full Rendezvous Time IE, see section 7.4.2.6 (macCslInterval is nonzero).

        Public Members

        uint16\_t rendezvous\_time
        :   Rendezvous time.

        uint16\_t wakeup\_interval
        :   Wakeup interval.

    struct ieee802154\_header\_ie\_rendezvous\_time\_reduced
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_ie.h>*

        Reduced Rendezvous Time IE, see section 7.4.2.6 (macCslInterval is zero).

        Public Members

        uint16\_t rendezvous\_time
        :   Rendezvous time.

    struct ieee802154\_header\_ie\_rendezvous\_time
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_ie.h>*

        Rendezvous Time IE, see section 7.4.2.6.

        Public Members

        struct [ieee802154\_header\_ie\_rendezvous\_time\_full](#c.ieee802154_header_ie_rendezvous_time_full) full
        :   Rendezvous time full information.

        struct [ieee802154\_header\_ie\_rendezvous\_time\_reduced](#c.ieee802154_header_ie_rendezvous_time_reduced) reduced
        :   Rendezvous time reduced information.

    struct ieee802154\_header\_ie\_time\_correction
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_ie.h>*

        Time Correction IE, see section 7.4.2.7.

        Public Members

        uint16\_t time\_sync\_info
        :   Time synchronization information.

    struct ieee802154\_phy\_channel\_range
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_radio.h>*

        Represents a supported channel range, see [ieee802154\_phy\_supported\_channels](#structieee802154__phy__supported__channels).

        Public Members

        uint16\_t from\_channel
        :   From channel range.

        uint16\_t to\_channel
        :   To channel range.

    struct ieee802154\_phy\_supported\_channels
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_radio.h>*

        Represents a list channels supported by a driver for a given interface, see [IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_SUPPORTED\_CHANNEL\_RANGES](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ggaf4deddd3f23ebfd65fa47c5d62634430aba76daa0a70bcdd573ecbfd63ca19e7d).

        Public Members

        const struct [ieee802154\_phy\_channel\_range](#c.ieee802154_phy_channel_range) \*const ranges
        :   Pointer to an array of channel range structures.

            Warning

            The pointer must be valid and constant throughout the life of the interface.

        const uint8\_t num\_ranges
        :   The number of currently available channel ranges.

    struct ieee802154\_filter
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_radio.h>*

        Filter value, see [ieee802154\_radio\_api::filter](#structieee802154__radio__api_1aa9502e0e014a8d05ffe235567e8c98f3).

        Public Members

        uint8\_t \*ieee\_addr
        :   Extended address, in little endian.

        uint16\_t short\_addr
        :   Short address, in CPU byte order.

        uint16\_t pan\_id
        :   PAN ID, in CPU byte order.

    struct ieee802154\_key
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_radio.h>*

        Key configuration for transmit security offloading, see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_MAC\_KEYS](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09a8bd29c6d6aa67adaf23415eb337904c0).

        Public Members

        uint8\_t \*key\_value
        :   Key material.

        uint32\_t key\_frame\_counter
        :   Initial value of frame counter associated with the key, see section 9.4.3.

        bool frame\_counter\_per\_key
        :   Indicates if per-key frame counter should be used, see section 9.4.3.

        uint8\_t key\_id\_mode
        :   Key Identifier Mode, see section 9.4.2.3, Table 9-7.

        uint8\_t \*key\_id
        :   Key Identifier, see section 9.4.4.

    struct ieee802154\_config
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_radio.h>*

        IEEE 802.15.4 driver configuration data.

        Public Members

        bool enabled
        :   Is auto ACK FPB enabled.

            Is enabled.

        enum [ieee802154\_fpb\_mode](#c.ieee802154_fpb_mode) mode
        :   Auto ACK FPB mode.

        struct [ieee802154\_config](#c.ieee802154_config).[anonymous].[anonymous] auto\_ack\_fpb
        :   see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_AUTO\_ACK\_FPB](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09a38c67aac70d24b31996871fe4686d9ee)

        uint8\_t \*addr
        :   little endian for both short and extended address

        bool extended
        :   Is extended address.

        struct [ieee802154\_config](#c.ieee802154_config).[anonymous].[anonymous] ack\_fpb
        :   see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_ACK\_FPB](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09ab897aea56ea5e9ddf306c5c0d75c2cd7)

        bool pan\_coordinator
        :   see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_PAN\_COORDINATOR](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09ab2b6ae3034fb469168ed29704ec045f0)

        bool promiscuous
        :   see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_PROMISCUOUS](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09a399313ff2d8ebb3a2d72152a9615d8c5)

        bool rx\_on\_when\_idle
        :   see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_RX\_ON\_WHEN\_IDLE](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09a9228dbe2583e5be10f64b116e87645e1)

        [ieee802154\_event\_cb\_t](#c.ieee802154_event_cb_t) event\_handler
        :   see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_EVENT\_HANDLER](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09a8d88a76f71cf8869b3e35e423b18c6f3)

        struct [ieee802154\_key](#c.ieee802154_key) \*mac\_keys
        :   see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_MAC\_KEYS](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09a8bd29c6d6aa67adaf23415eb337904c0)

            Pointer to an array containing a list of keys used for MAC encryption. Refer to secKeyIdLookupDescriptor and secKeyDescriptor in IEEE 802.15.4

            The key\_value field points to a buffer containing the 16 byte key. The buffer SHALL be copied by the driver before returning from the call.

            The variable length array is terminated by key\_value field set to NULL.

        uint32\_t frame\_counter
        :   see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_FRAME\_COUNTER](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09aad7d04b7e1c02b2d88fcbb8ab1ac313b)

        [net\_time\_t](net_time.md#c.net_time_t "net_time_t") start
        :   Nanosecond resolution timestamp relative to the network subsystem’s local clock defining the start of the RX window during which the receiver is expected to be listening (i.e.

            not including any driver startup times).

            Configuring an rx\_slot with the start attribute set to -1 will cancel and delete any previously active rx slot.

        [net\_time\_t](net_time.md#c.net_time_t "net_time_t") duration
        :   Nanosecond resolution duration of the RX window relative to the above RX window start time during which the receiver is expected to be listening (i.e.

            not including any shutdown times). Only positive values larger than or equal zero are allowed.

            Setting the duration to zero will disable the receiver, no matter what the start parameter.

        uint8\_t channel
        :   Used channel.

        struct [ieee802154\_config](#c.ieee802154_config).[anonymous].[anonymous] rx\_slot
        :   see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_RX\_SLOT](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09af4e3dd7588ee06458f2d42f02797b3d6)

        uint32\_t csl\_period
        :   see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_CSL\_PERIOD](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09a9fdbe95e0b7141d9150eaa4a5793c2e7)

            in CPU byte order

        [net\_time\_t](net_time.md#c.net_time_t "net_time_t") expected\_rx\_time
        :   see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_EXPECTED\_RX\_TIME](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09a1a71ef76d90b6882196e4c6473de6bd8)

        struct ieee802154\_header\_ie \*header\_ie
        :   Pointer to the header IE, see section 7.4.2.1, figure 7-21.

            Certain header IEs may be incomplete if they require timing information to be injected at runtime on-the-fly, see the list in [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_ENH\_ACK\_HEADER\_IE](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09a840e5f1db9a354e7bcd892ddb4117907).

        const uint8\_t \*ext\_addr
        :   Filters the devices that will receive this IE by extended address.

            MAY be set to NULL to configure a fallback for all devices (implies that short\_addr MUST also be set to [IEEE802154\_BROADCAST\_ADDRESS](#group__ieee802154__l2_1gafae1906dc9b39c93690b127efaaacacb)).

            in big endian

        uint16\_t short\_addr
        :   Filters the devices that will receive this IE by short address.

            MAY be set to [IEEE802154\_BROADCAST\_ADDRESS](#group__ieee802154__l2_1gafae1906dc9b39c93690b127efaaacacb) to configure a fallback for all devices (implies that ext\_addr MUST also set to NULL in this case).

            in CPU byte order

        bool purge\_ie
        :   Flag for purging enh ACK header IEs.

            When flag is set to true, driver should remove all existing header IEs, and all other entries in config should be ignored. This means that purging current header IEs and configuring a new one in the same call is not allowed.

        struct [ieee802154\_config](#c.ieee802154_config).[anonymous].[anonymous] ack\_ie
        :   see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_ENH\_ACK\_HEADER\_IE](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09a840e5f1db9a354e7bcd892ddb4117907)

        union [ieee802154\_config](#c.ieee802154_config).[anonymous] [anonymous]
        :   Configuration data.

    struct ieee802154\_attr\_value
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_radio.h>*

        IEEE 802.15.4 driver attribute values.

        This structure is reserved to scalar and structured attributes that originate in the driver implementation and can neither be implemented as boolean [ieee802154\_hw\_caps](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gaf99cda89c29df3c0088fc57ec09cbcd4) nor be derived directly or indirectly by the MAC (L2) layer. In particular this structure MUST NOT be used to return configuration data that originate from L2.

        Note

        To keep this union reasonably small, any attribute requiring a large memory area, SHALL be provided pointing to static memory allocated by the driver and valid throughout the lifetime of the driver instance.

        Public Members

        uint32\_t phy\_supported\_channel\_pages
        :   A bit field that represents the supported channel pages, see [ieee802154\_phy\_channel\_page](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gacabc7386bea701373dfb36ab65bd36a9).

            Note

            To keep the API extensible as required by the standard, supported pages are modeled as a bitmap to support drivers that implement runtime switching between multiple channel pages.

            Note

            Currently none of the Zephyr drivers implements more than one channel page at runtime, therefore only one bit will be set and the current channel page (see the PHY PIB attribute phyCurrentPage, section 11.3, table 11-2) is considered to be read-only, fixed and “well known” via the supported channel pages attribute.

        const struct [ieee802154\_phy\_supported\_channels](#c.ieee802154_phy_supported_channels) \*phy\_supported\_channels
        :   Pointer to a structure representing channel ranges currently available on the selected channel page.

            The selected channel page corresponds to the phyCurrentPage PHY PIB attribute, see the description of phy\_supported\_channel\_pages above. Currently it can be retrieved via the [IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_SUPPORTED\_CHANNEL\_PAGES](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ggaf4deddd3f23ebfd65fa47c5d62634430a4ad28f920776c45af9d430db786a926a) attribute.

            Most drivers will expose a single channel page with a single, often zero-based, fixed channel range.

            Some notable exceptions:

            - The legacy channel page (zero) exposes ranges in different bands and even PHYs that are usually not implemented by a single driver.
            - SUN and LECIM PHYs specify a large number of bands and operating modes on a single page with overlapping channel ranges each. Some of these ranges are not zero-based or contain “holes”. This explains why several ranges may be necessary to represent all available channels.
            - UWB PHYs often support partial channel ranges on the same channel page depending on the supported bands.

            In these cases, drivers may expose custom configuration attributes (Kconfig, devicetree, runtime, …) that allow switching between sub-ranges within the same channel page (e.g. switching between SubG and 2.4G bands on channel page zero or switching between multiple operating modes in the SUN or LECIM PHYs.

            Warning

            The pointer must be valid and constant throughout the life of the interface.

        uint32\_t phy\_hrp\_uwb\_supported\_nominal\_prfs
        :   A bit field representing supported HRP UWB pulse repetition frequencies (PRF), see enum [ieee802154\_phy\_hrp\_uwb\_nominal\_prf](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ga13610aeef06372bc47d84464537fdded).

            Note

            Currently none of the Zephyr HRP UWB drivers implements more than one nominal PRF at runtime, therefore only one bit will be set and the current PRF (UwbPrf, MCPS-DATA.request, section 8.3.2, table 8-88) is considered to be read-only, fixed and “well known” via the supported PRF attribute.

    struct ieee802154\_radio\_api
    :   *#include <ieee802154\_radio.h>*

        IEEE 802.15.4 driver interface API.

        While L1-level driver features are exclusively implemented by drivers and MAY be mandatory to support certain application requirements, L2 features SHOULD be optional by default and only need to be implemented for performance optimization or precise timing as deemed necessary by driver maintainers. Fallback implementations (“Soft MAC”) SHOULD be provided in the driver-independent L2 layer for all L2/MAC features especially if these features are not implemented in vendor hardware/firmware by a majority of existing in-tree drivers. If, however, a driver offers offloading opportunities then L2 implementations SHALL delegate performance critical or resource intensive tasks to the driver.

        All drivers SHALL support two externally observable interface operational states: “UP” and “DOWN”. Drivers MAY additionally support a “TESTING” interface state (see `[continuous_carrier()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a5b9b45e274fd6a8777cd96280b1a1b9e)`).

        The following rules apply:

        - An interface is considered “UP” when it is able to transmit and receive packets, “DOWN” otherwise (see precise definitions of the corresponding ifOperStatus values in RFC 2863, section 3.1.14, [net\_if\_oper\_state](net_if.md#group__net__if_1gadfe9d90f24046cd9bd4bbee096e747b9) and the `[continuous_carrier()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a5b9b45e274fd6a8777cd96280b1a1b9e)` exception below). A device that has its receiver temporarily disabled during “UP” state due to an active receive window configuration is still considered “UP”.
        - Upper layers will assume that the interface managed by the driver is “UP” after a call to `[start()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a0e4d57dc3a53299ddedf2140e172103d)` returned zero or `-[EALREADY](../../../develop/languages/c/minimal_libc.md#group__system__errno_1gaa4ccb54aa806de3e41a8515f06db85d4)`. Upper layers assume that the interface is “DOWN” after calling `[stop()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a75cfcfe2b9e69c2e4af53f00c8294b36)` returned zero or `-[EALREADY](../../../develop/languages/c/minimal_libc.md#group__system__errno_1gaa4ccb54aa806de3e41a8515f06db85d4)`.
        - The driver SHALL block `[start()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a0e4d57dc3a53299ddedf2140e172103d)`/`[stop()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a75cfcfe2b9e69c2e4af53f00c8294b36)` calls until the interface fully transitioned to the new state (e.g. the receiver is operational, ongoing transmissions were finished, etc.). Drivers SHOULD yield the calling thread (i.e. “sleep”) if waiting for the new state without CPU interaction is possible.
        - Drivers are responsible of guaranteeing atomicity of state changes. Appropriate means of synchronization SHALL be implemented (locking, atomic flags, …).
        - While the interface is “DOWN”, the driver SHALL be placed in the lowest possible power state. The driver MAY return from a call to `[stop()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a75cfcfe2b9e69c2e4af53f00c8294b36)` before it reaches the lowest possible power state, i.e. manage power asynchronously. While the interface is “UP”, the driver SHOULD autonomously and asynchronously transition to lower power states whenever possible. If the driver claims to support timed RX/TX capabilities and the upper layers configure an RX slot, then the driver SHALL immediately transition (asynchronously) to the lowest possible power state until the start of the RX slot or until a scheduled packet needs to be transmitted.
        - The driver SHALL NOT change the interface’s “UP”/”DOWN” state on its own. Initially, the interface SHALL be in the “DOWN” state.
        - Drivers that implement the optional `[continuous_carrier()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a5b9b45e274fd6a8777cd96280b1a1b9e)` operation will be considered to be in the RFC 2863 “testing” ifOperStatus state if that operation returns zero. This state is active until either `[start()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a0e4d57dc3a53299ddedf2140e172103d)` or `[stop()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a75cfcfe2b9e69c2e4af53f00c8294b36)` is called. If `[continuous_carrier()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a5b9b45e274fd6a8777cd96280b1a1b9e)` returns a non-zero value then the previous state is assumed by upper layers.
        - If calls to `[start()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a0e4d57dc3a53299ddedf2140e172103d)`/`[stop()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a75cfcfe2b9e69c2e4af53f00c8294b36)` return any other value than zero or `-[EALREADY](../../../develop/languages/c/minimal_libc.md#group__system__errno_1gaa4ccb54aa806de3e41a8515f06db85d4)`, upper layers will consider the interface to be in a “lowerLayerDown” state as defined in RFC 2863.
        - The RFC 2863 “dormant”, “unknown” and “notPresent” ifOperStatus states are currently not supported. The “lowerLevelUp” state.
        - The `[ed_scan()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a01fc17f85f2be33877a9347f59a84c54)`, `[cca()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a2cbbd0e64fae28f748bb3e4d654a92bf)` and `[tx()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a70139acec22642c1fc09f2323c383fe6)` operations SHALL only be supported in the “UP” state and return `-[ENETDOWN](../../../develop/languages/c/minimal_libc.md#group__system__errno_1gaac51995026fa19cdd0ad84a272304af0)` in any other state. See the function-level API documentation below for further details.

        Note

        This structure is called “radio” API for backwards compatibility. A better name would be “IEEE 802.15.4 driver API” as typical drivers will not only implement L1/radio (PHY) features but also L2 (MAC) features if the vendor-specific driver hardware or firmware offers offloading opportunities.

        Note

        In case of devices that support timed RX/TX, the “UP” state is not equal to “receiver enabled”. If a receive window (i.e. RX slot, see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_RX\_SLOT](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09af4e3dd7588ee06458f2d42f02797b3d6)) is configured before calling `[start()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a0e4d57dc3a53299ddedf2140e172103d)` then the receiver will not be enabled when transitioning to the “UP” state. Configuring a receive window while the interface is “UP” will cause the receiver to be disabled immediately until the configured reception time has arrived.

        Public Members

        struct net\_if\_api iface\_api
        :   network interface API

            Note

            Network devices must extend the network interface API. It is therefore mandatory to place it at the top of the driver API struct so that it can be cast to a network interface.

        enum [ieee802154\_hw\_caps](#c.ieee802154_hw_caps) (\*get\_capabilities)(const struct [device](../../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev)
        :   Get the device driver capabilities.

            Note

            Implementations SHALL be **isr-ok** and MUST NOT **sleep**. MAY be called in any interface state once the driver is fully initialized (“ready”).

            Param dev:
            :   pointer to IEEE 802.15.4 driver device

            Return:
            :   Bit field with all supported device driver capabilities.

        int (\*cca)(const struct [device](../../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev)
        :   Clear Channel Assessment - Check channel’s activity.

            Note

            Implementations SHALL be **isr-ok** and MAY **sleep**. SHALL return -ENETDOWN unless the interface is “UP”.

            Param dev:
            :   pointer to IEEE 802.15.4 driver device

            Retval 0:
            :   the channel is available

            Retval -EBUSY:
            :   The channel is busy.

            Retval -EWOULDBLOCK:
            :   The operation is called from ISR context but temporarily cannot be executed without blocking.

            Retval -ENETDOWN:
            :   The interface is not “UP”.

            Retval -ENOTSUP:
            :   CCA is not supported by this driver.

            Retval -EIO:
            :   The CCA procedure could not be executed.

        int (\*set\_channel)(const struct [device](../../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev, uint16\_t channel)
        :   Set current channel.

            Note

            Implementations SHALL be **isr-ok** and MAY **sleep**. SHALL return -EIO unless the interface is either “UP” or “DOWN”.

            Param dev:
            :   pointer to IEEE 802.15.4 driver device

            Param channel:
            :   the number of the channel to be set in CPU byte order

            Retval 0:
            :   channel was successfully set

            Retval -EALREADY:
            :   The previous channel is the same as the requested channel.

            Retval -EINVAL:
            :   The given channel is not within the range of valid channels of the driver’s current channel page, see the IEEE802154\_ATTR\_PHY\_SUPPORTED\_CHANNEL\_RANGES driver attribute.

            Retval -EWOULDBLOCK:
            :   The operation is called from ISR context but temporarily cannot be executed without blocking.

            Retval -ENOTSUP:
            :   The given channel is within the range of valid channels of the driver’s current channel page but unsupported by the current driver.

            Retval -EIO:
            :   The channel could not be set.

        int (\*filter)(const struct [device](../../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev, bool set, enum [ieee802154\_filter\_type](#c.ieee802154_filter_type) type, const struct [ieee802154\_filter](#c.ieee802154_filter) \*filter)
        :   Set/Unset PAN ID, extended or short address filters.

            Note

            requires IEEE802154\_HW\_FILTER capability.

            Note

            Implementations SHALL be **isr-ok** and MAY **sleep**. SHALL return -EIO unless the interface is either “UP” or “DOWN”.

            Param dev:
            :   pointer to IEEE 802.15.4 driver device

            Param set:
            :   true to set the filter, false to remove it

            Param type:
            :   the type of entity to be added/removed from the filter list (a PAN ID or a source/destination address)

            Param filter:
            :   the entity to be added/removed from the filter list

            Retval 0:
            :   The filter was successfully added/removed.

            Retval -EINVAL:
            :   The given filter entity or filter entity type was not valid.

            Retval -EWOULDBLOCK:
            :   The operation is called from ISR context but temporarily cannot be executed without blocking.

            Retval -ENOTSUP:
            :   Setting/removing this filter or filter type is not supported by this driver.

            Retval -EIO:
            :   Error while setting/removing the filter.

        int (\*set\_txpower)(const struct [device](../../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev, int16\_t dbm)
        :   Set TX power level in dbm.

            Note

            Implementations SHALL be **isr-ok** and MAY **sleep**. SHALL return -EIO unless the interface is either “UP” or “DOWN”.

            Param dev:
            :   pointer to IEEE 802.15.4 driver device

            Param dbm:
            :   TX power in dbm

            Retval 0:
            :   The TX power was successfully set.

            Retval -EINVAL:
            :   The given dbm value is invalid or not supported by the driver.

            Retval -EWOULDBLOCK:
            :   The operation is called from ISR context but temporarily cannot be executed without blocking.

            Retval -EIO:
            :   The TX power could not be set.

        int (\*tx)(const struct [device](../../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev, enum [ieee802154\_tx\_mode](#c.ieee802154_tx_mode) mode, struct [net\_pkt](net_pkt.md#c.net_pkt "net_pkt") \*pkt, struct [net\_buf](net_buf.md#c.net_buf "net_buf") \*frag)
        :   Transmit a packet fragment as a single frame.

            Depending on the level of offloading features supported by the driver, the frame MAY not be fully encrypted/authenticated or it MAY not contain an FCS. It is the responsibility of L2 implementations to prepare the frame according to the offloading capabilities announced by the driver and to decide whether CCA, CSMA/CA, ACK or retransmission procedures need to be executed outside (“soft MAC”) or inside (“hard MAC”) the driver .

            All frames originating from L2 SHALL have all required IEs pre-allocated and pre-filled such that the driver does not have to parse and manipulate IEs at all. This includes ACK packets if the driver does not have the [IEEE802154\_HW\_RX\_TX\_ACK](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ggaf99cda89c29df3c0088fc57ec09cbcd4aec16c4d418117de2d106e84297568b03) capability. Also see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_ENH\_ACK\_HEADER\_IE](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09a840e5f1db9a354e7bcd892ddb4117907) for drivers that have the [IEEE802154\_HW\_RX\_TX\_ACK](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ggaf99cda89c29df3c0088fc57ec09cbcd4aec16c4d418117de2d106e84297568b03) capability.

            IEs that cannot be prepared by L2 unless the TX time is known (e.g. CSL IE, Rendezvous Time IE, Time Correction IE, …) SHALL be sent in any of the timed TX modes with appropriate timing information pre-filled in the IE such that drivers do not have to parse and manipulate IEs at all unless the frame is generated by the driver itself.

            In case any of the timed TX modes is supported and used (see [ieee802154\_hw\_caps](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gaf99cda89c29df3c0088fc57ec09cbcd4) and [ieee802154\_tx\_mode](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gab2bee8752291e082cb277145cef1225d)), the driver SHALL take responsibility of scheduling and sending the packet at the precise programmed time autonomously without further interaction by upper layers. The call to `[tx()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a70139acec22642c1fc09f2323c383fe6)` will block until the package has either been sent successfully (possibly including channel acquisition and packet acknowledgment) or a terminal transmission error occurred. The driver SHALL sleep and keep power consumption to the lowest possible level until the scheduled transmission time arrives or during any other idle waiting time.

            Note

            Implementations MAY **sleep** and will usually NOT be **isr-ok** - especially when timed TX, CSMA/CA, retransmissions, auto-ACK or any other offloading feature is supported that implies considerable idle waiting time. SHALL return `-[ENETDOWN](../../../develop/languages/c/minimal_libc.md#group__system__errno_1gaac51995026fa19cdd0ad84a272304af0)` unless the interface is “UP”.

            Warning

            The driver SHALL NOT take ownership of the given network packet and frame (fragment) buffer. Any data required by the driver including the actual frame content must be read synchronously and copied internally if needed at a later time (e.g. the contents of IEs required for protocol configuration, states of frame counters, sequence numbers, etc). Both, the packet and the buffer MAY be re-used or released by upper layers immediately after the function returns.

            Param dev:
            :   pointer to IEEE 802.15.4 driver device

            Param mode:
            :   the transmission mode, some of which require specific offloading capabilities.

            Param pkt:
            :   pointer to the network packet to be transmitted.

            Param frag:
            :   pointer to a network buffer containing a single fragment with the frame data to be transmitted

            Retval 0:
            :   The frame was successfully sent or scheduled. If the driver supports ACK offloading and the frame requested acknowledgment (AR bit set), this means that the packet was successfully acknowledged by its peer.

            Retval -EINVAL:
            :   Invalid packet (e.g. an expected IE is missing or the encryption/authentication state is not as expected).

            Retval -EBUSY:
            :   The frame could not be sent because the medium was busy (CSMA/CA or CCA offloading feature only).

            Retval -ENOMSG:
            :   The frame was not confirmed by an ACK packet (TX ACK offloading feature only) or the received ACK packet was invalid.

            Retval -ENOBUFS:
            :   The frame could not be scheduled due to missing internal resources (timed TX offloading feature only).

            Retval -ENETDOWN:
            :   The interface is not “UP”.

            Retval -ENOTSUP:
            :   The given TX mode is not supported.

            Retval -EIO:
            :   The frame could not be sent due to some unspecified driver error (e.g. the driver being busy).

        int (\*start)(const struct [device](../../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev)
        :   Start the device.

            Upper layers will assume the interface is “UP” if this operation returns with zero or `-[EALREADY](../../../develop/languages/c/minimal_libc.md#group__system__errno_1gaa4ccb54aa806de3e41a8515f06db85d4)`. The interface is placed in receive mode before returning from this operation unless an RX slot has been configured (even if it lies in the past, see [IEEE802154\_CONFIG\_RX\_SLOT](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09af4e3dd7588ee06458f2d42f02797b3d6)).

            Note

            Implementations SHALL be **isr-ok** and MAY **sleep**. MAY be called in any interface state once the driver is fully initialized (“ready”).

            Param dev:
            :   pointer to IEEE 802.15.4 driver device

            Retval 0:
            :   The driver was successfully started.

            Retval -EALREADY:
            :   The driver was already “UP”.

            Retval -EWOULDBLOCK:
            :   The operation is called from ISR context but temporarily cannot be executed without blocking.

            Retval -EIO:
            :   The driver could not be started.

        int (\*stop)(const struct [device](../../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev)
        :   Stop the device.

            Upper layers will assume the interface is “DOWN” if this operation returns with zero or `-[EALREADY](../../../develop/languages/c/minimal_libc.md#group__system__errno_1gaa4ccb54aa806de3e41a8515f06db85d4)`. The driver switches off the receiver before returning if it was previously on. The driver enters the lowest possible power mode after this operation is called. This MAY happen asynchronously (i.e. after the operation already returned control).

            Note

            Implementations SHALL be **isr-ok** and MAY **sleep**. MAY be called in any interface state once the driver is fully initialized (“ready”).

            Param dev:
            :   pointer to IEEE 802.15.4 driver device

            Retval 0:
            :   The driver was successfully stopped.

            Retval -EWOULDBLOCK:
            :   The operation is called from ISR context but temporarily cannot be executed without blocking.

            Retval -EALREADY:
            :   The driver was already “DOWN”.

            Retval -EIO:
            :   The driver could not be stopped.

        int (\*continuous\_carrier)(const struct [device](../../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev)
        :   Start continuous carrier wave transmission.

            The method blocks until the interface has started to emit a continuous carrier. To leave this mode, `[start()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a0e4d57dc3a53299ddedf2140e172103d)` or `[stop()](#structieee802154__radio__api_1a75cfcfe2b9e69c2e4af53f00c8294b36)` should be called, which will put the driver back into the “UP” or “DOWN” states, respectively.

            Note

            Implementations MAY **sleep** and will usually NOT be **isr-ok**. MAY be called in any interface state once the driver is fully initialized (“ready”).

            Param dev:
            :   pointer to IEEE 802.15.4 driver device

            Retval 0:
            :   continuous carrier wave transmission started

            Retval -EALREADY:
            :   The driver was already in “TESTING” state and emitting a continuous carrier.

            Retval -EIO:
            :   not started

        int (\*configure)(const struct [device](../../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev, enum [ieee802154\_config\_type](#c.ieee802154_config_type) type, const struct [ieee802154\_config](#c.ieee802154_config) \*config)
        :   Set or update driver configuration.

            The method blocks until the interface has been reconfigured atomically with respect to ongoing package reception, transmission or any other ongoing driver operation.

            Note

            Implementations SHALL be **isr-ok** and MAY **sleep**. MAY be called in any interface state once the driver is fully initialized (“ready”). Some configuration options may not be supported in all interface operational states, see the detailed specifications in [ieee802154\_config\_type](#group__ieee802154__driver_1ga34aecc5996174a812b295a3a4693ad09). In this case the operation returns `-[EACCES](../../../develop/languages/c/minimal_libc.md#group__system__errno_1gac2a2e9fa555401f94478f74e01868032)`.

            Param dev:
            :   pointer to IEEE 802.15.4 driver device

            Param type:
            :   the configuration type to be set

            Param config:
            :   the configuration parameters to be set for the given configuration type

            Retval 0:
            :   configuration successful

            Retval -EINVAL:
            :   The configuration parameters are invalid for the given configuration type.

            Retval -ENOTSUP:
            :   The given configuration type is not supported by this driver.

            Retval -EACCES:
            :   The given configuration type is supported by this driver but cannot be configured in the current interface operational state.

            Retval -ENOMEM:
            :   The configuration cannot be saved due to missing memory resources.

            Retval -ENOENT:
            :   The resource referenced in the configuration parameters cannot be found in the configuration.

            Retval -EWOULDBLOCK:
            :   The operation is called from ISR context but temporarily cannot be executed without blocking.

            Retval -EIO:
            :   An internal error occurred while trying to configure the given configuration parameter.

        int (\*ed\_scan)(const struct [device](../../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev, uint16\_t duration, [energy\_scan\_done\_cb\_t](#c.energy_scan_done_cb_t) done\_cb)
        :   Run an energy detection scan.

            Note

            requires IEEE802154\_HW\_ENERGY\_SCAN capability

            Note

            The radio channel must be set prior to calling this function.

            Note

            Implementations SHALL be **isr-ok** and MAY **sleep**. SHALL return `-[ENETDOWN](../../../develop/languages/c/minimal_libc.md#group__system__errno_1gaac51995026fa19cdd0ad84a272304af0)` unless the interface is “UP”.

            Param dev:
            :   pointer to IEEE 802.15.4 driver device

            Param duration:
            :   duration of energy scan in ms

            Param done\_cb:
            :   function called when the energy scan has finished

            Retval 0:
            :   the energy detection scan was successfully scheduled

            Retval -EBUSY:
            :   the energy detection scan could not be scheduled at this time

            Retval -EALREADY:
            :   a previous energy detection scan has not finished yet.

            Retval -ENETDOWN:
            :   The interface is not “UP”.

            Retval -ENOTSUP:
            :   This driver does not support energy scans.

            Retval -EIO:
            :   The energy detection procedure could not be executed.

        [net\_time\_t](net_time.md#c.net_time_t "net_time_t") (\*get\_time)(const struct [device](../../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev)
        :   Get the current time in nanoseconds relative to the network subsystem’s local uptime clock as represented by this network interface.

            See [net\_time\_t](net_time.md#group__net__time_1gaf1da332e3909fca30de991cc2f950e56) for semantic details.

            Note

            requires IEEE802154\_HW\_TXTIME and/or IEEE802154\_HW\_RXTIME capabilities. Implementations SHALL be **isr-ok** and MUST NOT **sleep**. MAY be called in any interface state once the driver is fully initialized (“ready”).

            Param dev:
            :   pointer to IEEE 802.15.4 driver device

            Return:
            :   nanoseconds relative to the network subsystem’s local clock, -1 if an error occurred or the operation is not supported

        uint8\_t (\*get\_sch\_acc)(const struct [device](../../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev)
        :   Get the current estimated worst case accuracy (maximum ± deviation from the nominal frequency) of the network subsystem’s local clock used to calculate tolerances and guard times when scheduling delayed receive or transmit radio operations.

            The deviation is given in units of PPM (parts per million).

            Note

            requires IEEE802154\_HW\_TXTIME and/or IEEE802154\_HW\_RXTIME capabilities.

            Note

            Implementations may estimate this value based on current operating conditions (e.g. temperature). Implementations SHALL be **isr-ok** and MUST NOT **sleep**. MAY be called in any interface state once the driver is fully initialized (“ready”).

            Param dev:
            :   pointer to IEEE 802.15.4 driver device

            Return:
            :   current estimated clock accuracy in PPM

        int (\*attr\_get)(const struct [device](../../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev, enum [ieee802154\_attr](#c.ieee802154_attr) attr, struct [ieee802154\_attr\_value](#c.ieee802154_attr_value) \*value)
        :   Get the value of a driver specific attribute.

            Note

            This function SHALL NOT return any values configurable by the MAC (L2) layer. It is reserved to non-boolean (i.e. scalar or structured) attributes that originate from the driver implementation and cannot be directly or indirectly derived by L2. Boolean attributes SHALL be implemented as [ieee802154\_hw\_caps](#group__ieee802154__driver_1gaf99cda89c29df3c0088fc57ec09cbcd4).

            Note

            Implementations SHALL be **isr-ok** and MUST NOT **sleep**. MAY be called in any interface state once the driver is fully initialized (“ready”).

            Retval 0:
            :   The requested attribute is supported by the driver and the value can be retrieved from the corresponding [ieee802154\_attr\_value](#structieee802154__attr__value) member.

            Retval -ENOENT:
            :   The driver does not provide the requested attribute. The value structure has not been updated with attribute data. The content of the value attribute is undefined.

### [IEEE 802.15.4 L2 / Native Stack API](#id6)

This documents the IEEE 802.15.4 L2 native stack, which neither applications nor
drivers will ever access directly. It is called internally by Zephyr’s upper
network layers (L3+), its socket and network context abstractions. This API is
therefore of interest to IEEE 802.15.4 **subsystem contributors** only.

*group* IEEE 802.15.4 L2
:   IEEE 802.15.4 L2 APIs.

    **Since**
    :   1.0

    **Version**
    :   0.8.0

    This API provides integration with Zephyr’s sockets and network contexts. **Application and driver developers should never interface directly with this API.** It is of interest to subsystem maintainers only.

    The API implements and extends the following structures:

    - implements Zephyr’s internal L2-level socket and network context abstractions (context/socket operations, see [Network L2 Abstraction Layer](net_l2.md#group__net__l2)),
    - protocol-specific extension to the interface structure (see [Network Interface abstraction layer](net_if.md#group__net__if))
    - protocol-specific extensions to the network packet structure (see [Network Packet Library](net_pkt.md#group__net__pkt)),

    Note

    All section, table and figure references are to the IEEE 802.15.4-2020 standard.

    Defines

    IEEE802154\_MAX\_PHY\_PACKET\_SIZE
    :   Represents the PHY constant aMaxPhyPacketSize, see section 11.3.

        Note

        Currently only 127 byte sized packets are supported although some PHYs (e.g. SUN, MSK, LECIM, …) support larger packet sizes. Needs to be changed once those PHYs should be fully supported.

    IEEE802154\_FCS\_LENGTH
    :   Represents the frame check sequence length, see section 7.2.1.1.

        Note

        Currently only a 2 byte FCS is supported although some PHYs (e.g. SUN, TVWS, …) optionally support a 4 byte FCS. Needs to be changed once those PHYs should be fully supported.

    IEEE802154\_MTU
    :   IEEE 802.15.4 “hardware” MTU (not to be confused with L3/IP MTU), i.e.

        the actual payload available to the next higher layer.

        This is equivalent to the IEEE 802.15.4 MAC frame length minus checksum bytes which is again equivalent to the PHY payload aka PSDU length minus checksum bytes. This definition exists for compatibility with the same concept in Linux and Zephyr’s L3. It is not a concept from the IEEE 802.15.4 standard.

        Note

        Currently only the original frame size from the 2006 standard version and earlier is supported. The 2015+ standard introduced PHYs with larger PHY payload. These are not (yet) supported in Zephyr.

    IEEE802154\_SHORT\_ADDR\_LENGTH
    :   IEEE 802.15.4 short address length.

    IEEE802154\_EXT\_ADDR\_LENGTH
    :   IEEE 802.15.4 extended address length.

    IEEE802154\_MAX\_ADDR\_LENGTH
    :   IEEE 802.15.4 maximum address length.

    IEEE802154\_NO\_CHANNEL
    :   A special channel value that symbolizes “all” channels or “any” channel - depending on context.

    IEEE802154\_BROADCAST\_ADDRESS
    :   Represents the IEEE 802.15.4 broadcast short address, see sections 6.1 and 8.4.3, table 8-94, macShortAddress.

    IEEE802154\_NO\_SHORT\_ADDRESS\_ASSIGNED
    :   Represents a special IEEE 802.15.4 short address that indicates that a device has been associated with a coordinator but did not receive a short address, see sections 6.4.1 and 8.4.3, table 8-94, macShortAddress.

    IEEE802154\_BROADCAST\_PAN\_ID
    :   Represents the IEEE 802.15.4 broadcast PAN ID, see section 6.1.

    IEEE802154\_SHORT\_ADDRESS\_NOT\_ASSOCIATED
    :   Represents a special value of the macShortAddress MAC PIB attribute, while the device is not associated, see section 8.4.3, table 8-94.

    IEEE802154\_PAN\_ID\_NOT\_ASSOCIATED
    :   Represents a special value of the macPanId MAC PIB attribute, while the device is not associated, see section 8.4.3, table 8-94.

    Enums

    enum ieee802154\_device\_role
    :   IEEE 802.15.4 device role.

        *Values:*

        enumerator IEEE802154\_DEVICE\_ROLE\_ENDDEVICE
        :   End device.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_DEVICE\_ROLE\_COORDINATOR
        :   Coordinator.

        enumerator IEEE802154\_DEVICE\_ROLE\_PAN\_COORDINATOR
        :   PAN coordinator.

    struct ieee802154\_security\_ctx
    :   *#include <ieee802154.h>*

        Interface-level security attributes, see section 9.5.

        Public Members

        uint32\_t frame\_counter
        :   Interface-level outgoing frame counter, section 9.5, table 9-8, secFrameCounter.

            Only used when the driver does not implement key-specific frame counters.

        uint8\_t key[16]
        :   Interface-level frame encryption security key material.

            Currently native L2 only supports a single secKeySource, see section 9.5, table 9-9, in combination with secKeyMode zero (implicit key mode), see section 9.4.2.3, table 9-7.

            Warning

            This is no longer in accordance with the 2015+ versions of the standard and needs to be extended in the future for full security procedure compliance.

        uint8\_t key\_len
        :   Length in bytes of the interface-level security key material.

        uint8\_t level
        :   Frame security level, possible values are defined in section 9.4.2.2, table 9-6.

            Warning

            Currently native L2 allows to configure one common security level for all frame types, commands and information elements. This is no longer in accordance with the 2015+ versions of the standard and needs to be extended in the future for full security procedure compliance.

        uint8\_t key\_mode
        :   Frame security key mode.

            Currently only implicit key mode is partially supported, see section 9.4.2.3, table 9-7, secKeyMode.

            Warning

            This is no longer in accordance with the 2015+ versions of the standard and needs to be extended in the future for full security procedure compliance.

    struct ieee802154\_context
    :   *#include <ieee802154.h>*

        IEEE 802.15.4 L2 context.

        Public Members

        uint16\_t pan\_id
        :   PAN ID.

            The identifier of the PAN on which the device is operating. If this value is 0xffff, the device is not associated. See section 8.4.3.1, table 8-94, macPanId.

            in CPU byte order

        uint16\_t channel
        :   Channel Number.

            The RF channel to use for all transmissions and receptions, see section 11.3, table 11-2, phyCurrentChannel. The allowable range of values is PHY dependent as defined in section 10.1.3.

            in CPU byte order

        uint16\_t short\_addr
        :   Short Address (in CPU byte order).

            Range:

            - 0x0000–0xfffd: associated, short address was assigned
            - 0xfffe: associated but no short address assigned
            - 0xffff: not associated (default),

            See section 6.4.1, table 6-4 (Usage of the shart address) and section 8.4.3.1, table 8-94, macShortAddress.

        uint8\_t ext\_addr[8]
        :   Extended Address (in little endian).

            The extended address is device specific, usually permanently stored on the device and immutable.

            See section 8.4.3.1, table 8-94, macExtendedAddress.

        struct [net\_linkaddr\_storage](net_linkaddr.md#c.net_linkaddr_storage "net_linkaddr_storage") linkaddr
        :   Link layer address (in big endian).

        struct [ieee802154\_security\_ctx](#c.ieee802154_security_ctx) sec\_ctx
        :   Security context.

        struct [ieee802154\_req\_params](#c.ieee802154_req_params) \*scan\_ctx
        :   Pointer to scanning parameters and results, guarded by scan\_ctx\_lock.

        struct k\_sem scan\_ctx\_lock
        :   Used to maintain integrity of data for all fields in this struct unless otherwise documented on field level.

        uint8\_t coord\_ext\_addr[8]
        :   Coordinator extended address.

            see section 8.4.3.1, table 8-94, macCoordExtendedAddress, the address of the coordinator through which the device is associated.

            A value of zero indicates that a coordinator extended address is unknown (default).

            in little endian

        uint16\_t coord\_short\_addr
        :   Coordinator short address.

            see section 8.4.3.1, table 8-94, macCoordShortAddress, the short address assigned to the coordinator through which the device is associated.

            A value of 0xfffe indicates that the coordinator is only using its extended address. A value of 0xffff indicates that this value is unknown.

            in CPU byte order

        int16\_t tx\_power
        :   Transmission power in dBm.

        enum [net\_l2\_flags](net_l2.md#c.net_l2_flags "net_l2_flags") flags
        :   L2 flags.

        uint8\_t sequence
        :   Data sequence number.

            The sequence number added to the transmitted Data frame or MAC command, see section 8.4.3.1, table 8-94, macDsn.

        uint8\_t device\_role
        :   Device Role.

            See section 6.1: A device may be operating as end device (0), coordinator (1), or PAN coordinator (2). If no device role is explicitly configured then the device will be treated as an end device.

            A value of 3 is undefined.

            Can be read/set via [ieee802154\_device\_role](#group__ieee802154__l2_1ga7a4fb2d89381bba54514bf8396fb6d26).

        uint8\_t ack\_requested
        :   ACK requested flag, guarded by ack\_lock.

        uint8\_t ack\_seq
        :   ACK expected sequence number, guarded by ack\_lock.

        struct k\_sem ack\_lock
        :   ACK lock, guards ack\_\* fields.

        struct k\_sem ctx\_lock
        :   Context lock.

            This lock guards all mutable context attributes unless otherwise mentioned on attribute level.

### [OpenThread L2 Adaptation Layer API](#id7)

Zephyr’s OpenThread L2 platform adaptation layer glues the external OpenThread
stack together with Zephyr’s IEEE 802.15.4 protocol agnostic driver API. This
API is of interest to OpenThread L2 **subsystem contributors** only.

The OpenThread API is part of the [Thread protocol](thread.md#thread-protocol-interface) subsystem and
documented there.
