---
version: v3.6.0
source_url: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/3.6.0/doc/connectivity/networking/api/ethernet_mgmt.html
original_path: connectivity/networking/api/ethernet_mgmt.html
---

This is the documentation for the latest (main) development branch of
Zephyr. If you are looking for the documentation of previous releases, use
the drop-down menu on the left and select the desired version.

# Ethernet Management

## [Overview](#id1)

Ethernet management API provides functions to manage the Ethernet
network interface low level status. The caller of these functions can:

- raise `carrier ON` or `carrier OFF` management events
- raise `VLAN enabled` or `VLAN disabled` management events

Typically the `carrier OFF` event would be generated by the Ethernet
device driver when it notices that the Ethernet cable is disconnected.
The `carrier ON` event would be generated if the Ethernet device driver
notices that the Ethernet cable is re-connected.

Currently the VLAN events are generated by the Ethernet L2 layer when a
specific VLAN tag is either enabled or disabled.

The user application can monitor these events if it needs to act
when the corresponding status changes.

## [API Reference](#id2)

*group* ethernet\_mgmt
:   Ethernet library.

    Functions

    void ethernet\_mgmt\_raise\_carrier\_on\_event(struct [net\_if](net_if.md#c.net_if "net_if") \*iface)
    :   Raise CARRIER\_ON event when Ethernet is connected.

        Parameters:
        :   - **iface** – Ethernet network interface.

    void ethernet\_mgmt\_raise\_carrier\_off\_event(struct [net\_if](net_if.md#c.net_if "net_if") \*iface)
    :   Raise CARRIER\_OFF event when Ethernet is disconnected.

        Parameters:
        :   - **iface** – Ethernet network interface.

    void ethernet\_mgmt\_raise\_vlan\_enabled\_event(struct [net\_if](net_if.md#c.net_if "net_if") \*iface, uint16\_t tag)
    :   Raise VLAN\_ENABLED event when VLAN is enabled.

        Parameters:
        :   - **iface** – Ethernet network interface.
            - **tag** – VLAN tag which is enabled.

    void ethernet\_mgmt\_raise\_vlan\_disabled\_event(struct [net\_if](net_if.md#c.net_if "net_if") \*iface, uint16\_t tag)
    :   Raise VLAN\_DISABLED event when VLAN is disabled.

        Parameters:
        :   - **iface** – Ethernet network interface.
            - **tag** – VLAN tag which is disabled.
