---
version: v3.6.0
source_url: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/3.6.0/doc/boards/arm/efr32_thunderboard/doc/brd2602.html
original_path: boards/arm/efr32_thunderboard/doc/brd2602.html
---

This is the documentation for the latest (main) development branch of
Zephyr. If you are looking for the documentation of previous releases, use
the drop-down menu on the left and select the desired version.

# SiLabs EFR32BG27-BRD2602(A) (EFR32BG27 +8 dBm Dev Kit Board)

BRD2602 is a board based on EFR32BG27 SoC and is one of
[EFR32 Thunderboard-style boards](index.md#efr32-thunderboard).

## Hardware

- EFR32BG27 Blue Gecko Wireless SoC with up to 76.8 MHz operating frequency
- ARM® Cortex® M33 core with 64 kB RAM and 768 kB Flash
- Macronix ultra low power 8-Mbit SPI flash (MX25R8035F)
- 2.4 GHz ceramic antenna for wireless transmission
- Silicon Labs Si7021 relative humidity and temperature sensor
- Vishay VEML6035 low power, high sensitivity ambient light Sensor
- Silicon Labs Si7210 hall effect sensor
- TDK InvenSense ICM-20689 6-axis inertial sensor
- Pair of PDM microphones
- One LED and one push button
- Power enable signals and isolation switches for ultra low power operation
- On-board SEGGER J-Link debugger for easy programming and debugging, which
  includes a USB virtual COM port and Packet Trace Interface (PTI)
- Mini Simplicity connector for access to energy profiling and advanced wireless
  network debugging
- Breakout pads for GPIO access and connection to external hardware
- Reset button
- CR2032 coin cell holder and external battery connector

### Supported Features

The efr32bg27\_brd2602 board configuration supports the following hardware features:

| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component |
| --- | --- | --- |
| NVIC | on-chip | nested vector interrupt controller |
| SYSTICK | on-chip | systick |
| FLASH | on-chip | flash memory |
| GPIO | on-chip | gpio |
| UART | on-chip | serial |

### Flashing

The EFR32BG27-BRD2602A includes an embedded [J-Link](https://www.segger.com/jlink-debug-probes.html) adapter built around
EFM32GG12 microcontroller (not user-programmable).
The adapter provides:

- SWD interface to EFR32BG27 for flashing and debugging.
- SWO trace interface to EFR32BG27 for tracing.
- UART interface to EFR32BG27 for console access.
- A USB connection to the host computer, which exposes CDC-ACM Serial Port
  endpoints for access to the console UART interface and proprietary J-Link
  endpoints for access to the SWD and SWO interfaces.

UART functionality of the adapter is accessible via standard CDC-ACM USB driver
present in most desktop operating systems and any standard serial port terminal
program e.g. [picocom](https://github.com/npat-efault/picocom).

SWD and SWO functionality is accessible via [Simplicity Commander](https://www.silabs.com/developers/mcu-programming-options).

The simplest way to flash the board is by using West, which runs Simplicity
Commander in unattended mode and passes all the necessary arguments to it.

- If Simplicity Commander is installed in the system and the directory in
  which commander executable is located is present in the PATH environment
  variable:

  ```shell
  west flash
  ```
- Otherwise, one should specify full path to the commander executable:

  ```shell
  west flash --commander <path_to_commander_directory>/commander
  ```
- In case several J-Link adapters are connected, you must specify serial number
  of the adapter which should be used for flashing:

  ```shell
  west flash --dev-id <J-Link serial number>
  ```

### Programming and Debugging

The sample application [Hello World](../../../../samples/hello_world/README.md#hello-world) is used for this example.
Build the Zephyr kernel and application:

```shell
# From the root of the zephyr repository
west build -b efr32bg27_brd2602a samples/hello_world
```

Connect your device to your host computer using the USB port and you
should see a USB connection. Use west’s flash command

Open a serial terminal (minicom, putty, etc.) with the following settings:

- Speed: 115200
- Data: 8 bits
- Parity: None
- Stop bits: 1

Reset the board and you should be able to see on the corresponding Serial Port
the following message:

```shell
Hello World! efr32bg27_brd2602a
```
