---
version: v3.7.0
source_url: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/3.7.0/hardware/peripherals/bc12.html
original_path: hardware/peripherals/bc12.html
---

This is the documentation for the latest (main) development branch of
Zephyr. If you are looking for the documentation of previous releases, use
the drop-down list at the bottom of the left panel and select the desired version.

# BC1.2 Devices (Experimental)

The Battery Charging specification, currently at revision 1.2, is commonly
referred to as just BC1.2. BC1.2 defines limits and detection mechanisms for USB
devices to draw current exceeding the USB 2.0 specification limit of 0.5A, 2.5W.

The BC1.2 specification uses the term Charging Port for the device that supplies
VBUS on the USB connection and the term Portable Device for the device that
sinks current from the USB connection.

Note that the [BC1.2 Specification](https://www.usb.org/document-library/battery-charging-v12-spec-and-adopters-agreement) uses the acronym PD for Portable Device. This
should not be confused with the USB-C Power Delivery, which also uses the
acronym PD.

On many devices, BC1.2 is the fallback mechanism to determine the connected
charger capability on USB type C ports when the attached type-C partner does not
support Power Delivery.

Key parameters from the [BC1.2 Specification](https://www.usb.org/document-library/battery-charging-v12-spec-and-adopters-agreement) include:

| Parameter | Symbol | Range |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Allowed PD (portable device) Current Draw from Charging Port | IDEV\_CHG | 1.5 A |
| Charging Downstream Port Rated Current | ICDP | 1.5 - 5.0 A |
| Maximum Configured Current when connected to a SDP | ICFG\_MAX | 500 mA |
| Dedicated Charging Port Rated Current | IDCP | 1.5 - 5.0 A |
| Suspend current | ISUSP | 2.5 mA |
| Unit load current | IUNIT | 100 mA |

While the ICDP and IDCP rated currents go up to 5.0 A, the BC1.2 current is
limited by the IDEV\_CHG parameter. So the BC1.2 support is capped at 1.5 A in
the Zephyr implementation when using portable-device mode.

## Basic Operation

The BC1.2 device driver provides only two APIs, `bc12_set_role()` and
`bc12_set_result_cb()`.

The application calls `bc12_set_role()` to transition the BC1.2 device to
either a disconnected, portable-device, or charging port mode.

For the disconnected state, the BC1.2 driver powers down the detection chip.
The power down operation is vendor specific.

The application calls `bc12_set_role()` with the type set to
BC12\_PORTABLE\_DEVICE when both the following conditions are true:

- The application configured the port as an upstream facing port, i.e. a USB
  device port.
- The application detects VBUS on the USB connection.

For portable-device mode, the BC1.2 driver powers up the detection chip and
starts charger detection. At completion of the charger detection, the BC1.2
driver notifies the callback registered with `bc12_set_result_cb()`. By
default, the BC1.2 driver clamps the current to 1.5A to comply with the BC1.2
specification.

To comply with the USB 2.0 specification, when the driver detects a SDP
(Standard Downstream Port) charging partner or if BC1.2 detection fails, the
driver reports the available current as ISUSP (2.5 mA). The application may
increase the current draw to IUNIT (100 mA) when the connected USB host resumes
the USB bus and may increase the current draw to ICFG\_MAX (500 mA) when the USB
host configures the USB device.

Charging port mode is used by the application when the USB port is configured as
a downstream facing port, i.e. a USB host port. For charging port mode, the
BC1.2 driver powers up the detection chip and configures the charger type
specified by a devicetree property. If the driver supports detection of plug and
unplug events, the BC1.2 driver notifies the callback registered with
`bc12_set_result_cb()` to indicate the current connection state of the
portable device partner.

## Configuration Options

Related configuration options:

- [`CONFIG_USB_BC12`](../../kconfig.md#CONFIG_USB_BC12 "CONFIG_USB_BC12")

## API Reference

*group* BC1.2 driver APIs
:   BC1.2 driver APIs.

    BC1.2 constants

    BC12\_CHARGER\_VOLTAGE\_UV
    :   BC1.2 USB charger voltage.

    BC12\_CHARGER\_MIN\_CURR\_UA
    :   BC1.2 USB charger minimum current.

        Set to match the Isusp of 2.5 mA parameter. This is returned by the driver when either BC1.2 detection fails, or the attached partner is a SDP (standard downstream port).

        The application may increase the current draw after determining the USB device state of suspended/unconfigured/configured. Suspended: 2.5 mA Unconfigured: 100 mA Configured: 500 mA (USB 2.0)

    BC12\_CHARGER\_MAX\_CURR\_UA
    :   BC1.2 USB charger maximum current.

    Typedefs

    typedef void (\*bc12\_callback\_t)(const struct [device](../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev, struct [bc12\_partner\_state](#c.bc12_partner_state) \*state, void \*user\_data)
    :   BC1.2 callback for charger configuration.

        Param dev:
        :   BC1.2 device which is notifying of the new charger state.

        Param state:
        :   Current state of the BC1.2 client, including BC1.2 type detected, voltage, and current limits. If NULL, then the partner charger is disconnected or the BC1.2 device is operating in host mode.

        Param user\_data:
        :   Requester supplied data which is passed along to the callback.

    Enums

    enum bc12\_role
    :   BC1.2 device role.

        *Values:*

        enumerator BC12\_DISCONNECTED

        enumerator BC12\_PORTABLE\_DEVICE

        enumerator BC12\_CHARGING\_PORT

    enum bc12\_type
    :   BC1.2 charging partner type.

        *Values:*

        enumerator BC12\_TYPE\_NONE
        :   No partner connected.

        enumerator BC12\_TYPE\_SDP
        :   Standard Downstream Port.

        enumerator BC12\_TYPE\_DCP
        :   Dedicated Charging Port.

        enumerator BC12\_TYPE\_CDP
        :   Charging Downstream Port.

        enumerator BC12\_TYPE\_PROPRIETARY
        :   Proprietary charging port.

        enumerator BC12\_TYPE\_UNKNOWN
        :   Unknown charging port, BC1.2 detection failed.

        enumerator BC12\_TYPE\_COUNT
        :   Count of valid BC12 types.

    Functions

    int bc12\_set\_role(const struct [device](../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev, enum [bc12\_role](#c.bc12_role) role)
    :   Set the BC1.2 role.

        Parameters:
        :   - **dev** – Pointer to the device structure for the BC1.2 driver instance.
            - **role** – New role for the BC1.2 device.

        Return values:
        :   - **0** – If successful.
            - **-EIO** – general input/output error.

    int bc12\_set\_result\_cb(const struct [device](../../kernel/drivers/index.md#c.device "device") \*dev, [bc12\_callback\_t](#c.bc12_callback_t) cb, void \*user\_data)
    :   Register a callback for BC1.2 results.

        Parameters:
        :   - **dev** – Pointer to the device structure for the BC1.2 driver instance.
            - **cb** – Function pointer for the result callback.
            - **user\_data** – Requester supplied data which is passed along to the callback.

        Return values:
        :   - **0** – If successful.
            - **-EIO** – general input/output error.

    struct bc12\_partner\_state
    :   *#include <usb\_bc12.h>*

        BC1.2 detected partner state.

        Param bc12\_role:
        :   Current role of the BC1.2 device.

        Param type:
        :   Charging partner type. Valid when [bc12\_role](#group__b12__interface_1ga035f4e4ba27f76094145571ebea97d73) is BC12\_PORTABLE\_DEVICE.

        Param current\_ma:
        :   Current, in uA, that the charging partner provides. Valid when [bc12\_role](#group__b12__interface_1ga035f4e4ba27f76094145571ebea97d73) is BC12\_PORTABLE\_DEVICE.

        Param voltage\_mv:
        :   Voltage, in uV, that the charging partner provides. Valid when [bc12\_role](#group__b12__interface_1ga035f4e4ba27f76094145571ebea97d73) is BC12\_PORTABLE\_DEVICE.

        Param pd\_partner\_connected:
        :   True if a PD partner is currently connected. Valid when [bc12\_role](#group__b12__interface_1ga035f4e4ba27f76094145571ebea97d73) is BC12\_CHARGING\_PORT.

*group* BC1.2 backed emulator APIs
:   BC1.2 backend emulator APIs.

    Functions

    static inline int bc12\_emul\_set\_charging\_partner(const struct [emul](../emulator/bus_emulators.md#c.emul "emul") \*target, enum [bc12\_type](#c.bc12_type) partner\_type)
    :   Set the charging partner type connected to the BC1.2 device.

        The corresponding BC1.2 emulator updates the vendor specific registers to simulate connection of the specified charging partner type. The emulator also generates an interrupt for processing by the real driver, if supported.

        Parameters:
        :   - **target** – Pointer to the emulator structure for the BC1.2 emulator instance.
            - **partner\_type** – The simulated partner type. Set to BC12\_TYPE\_NONE to disconnect the charging partner.

        Return values:
        :   - **0** – If successful.
            - **-EINVAL** – if the partner type is not supported.

    static inline int bc12\_emul\_set\_pd\_partner(const struct [emul](../emulator/bus_emulators.md#c.emul "emul") \*target, bool connected)
    :   Set the portable device partner state.

        The corresponding BC1.2 emulator updates the vendor specific registers to simulate connection or disconnection of a portable device partner. The emulator also generates an interrupt for processing by the real driver, if supported.

        Parameters:
        :   - **target** – Pointer to the emulator structure for the BC1.2 emulator instance.
            - **connected** – If true, emulate a connection of a portable device partner. If false, emulate a disconnect event.

        Return values:
        :   - **0** – If successful.
            - **-EINVAL** – if the connection/disconnection of PD partner is not supported.
