---
version: v3.7.0
source_url: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/3.7.0/connectivity/bluetooth/api/mesh/provisioning.html
original_path: connectivity/bluetooth/api/mesh/provisioning.html
---

This is the documentation for the latest (main) development branch of
Zephyr. If you are looking for the documentation of previous releases, use
the drop-down list at the bottom of the left panel and select the desired version.

# Provisioning

Provisioning is the process of adding devices to a mesh network. It requires
two devices operating in the following roles:

- The *provisioner* represents the network owner, and is responsible for
  adding new nodes to the mesh network.
- The *provisionee* is the device that gets added to the network through the
  Provisioning process. Before the provisioning process starts, the
  provisionee is an *unprovisioned device*.

The Provisioning module in the Zephyr Bluetooth Mesh stack supports both the
Advertising and GATT Provisioning bearers for the provisionee role, as well as
the Advertising Provisioning bearer for the provisioner role.

## The Provisioning process

All Bluetooth Mesh nodes must be provisioned before they can participate in a
Bluetooth Mesh network. The Provisioning API provides all the functionality
necessary for a device to become a provisioned mesh node.
Provisioning is a five-step process, involving the following steps:

- Beaconing
- Invitation
- Public key exchange
- Authentication
- Provisioning data transfer

### Beaconing

To start the provisioning process, the unprovisioned device must first start
broadcasting the Unprovisioned Beacon. This makes it visible to nearby
provisioners, which can initiate the provisioning. To indicate that the device
needs to be provisioned, call [`bt_mesh_prov_enable()`](#c.bt_mesh_prov_enable). The device
starts broadcasting the Unprovisioned Beacon with the device UUID and the
`OOB information` field, as specified in the `prov` parameter passed to
[`bt_mesh_init()`](core.md#c.bt_mesh_init "bt_mesh_init"). Additionally, a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)
may be specified, which can point the provisioner to the location of some Out
Of Band information, such as the device’s public key or an authentication
value database. The URI is advertised in a separate beacon, with a URI hash
included in the unprovisioned beacon, to tie the two together.

#### Uniform Resource Identifier

The Uniform Resource Identifier shall follow the format specified in the
Bluetooth Core Specification Supplement. The URI must start with a URI scheme,
encoded as a single utf-8 data point, or the special `none` scheme, encoded
as `0x01`. The available schemes are listed on the [Bluetooth website](https://www.bluetooth.com/specifications/assigned-numbers/).

Examples of encoded URIs:

URI encoding examples

| URI | Encoded |
| --- | --- |
| `http://example.com` | `\x16//example.com` |
| `https://www.zephyrproject.org/` | `\x17//www.zephyrproject.org/` |
| `just a string` | `\x01just a string` |

### Provisioning invitation

The provisioner initiates the Provisioning process by sending a Provisioning
invitation. The invitations prompts the provisionee to call attention to
itself using the Health Server
[Attention state](health_srv.md#bluetooth-mesh-models-health-srv-attention), if available.

The Unprovisioned device automatically responds to the invite by presenting a
list of its capabilities, including the supported Out of Band Authentication
methods and algorithms.

### Public key exchange

Before the provisioning process can begin, the provisioner and the unprovisioned
device exchange public keys, either in-band or Out of Band (OOB).

In-band public key exchange is a part of the provisioning process and always
supported by the unprovisioned device and provisioner.

If the application wants to support public key exchange via OOB, it needs to
provide public and private keys to the mesh stack. The unprovisioned device
will reflect this in its capabilities. The provisioner obtains the public key
via any available OOB mechanism (e.g. the device may advertise a packet
containing the public key or it can be encoded in a QR code printed on the
device packaging). Note that even if the unprovisioned device has specified
the public key for the Out of Band exchange, the provisioner may choose to
exchange the public key in-band if it can’t retrieve the public key via OOB
mechanism. In this case, a new key pair will be generated by the mesh stack
for each Provisioning process.

To enable support of OOB public key on the unprovisioned device side,
[`CONFIG_BT_MESH_PROV_OOB_PUBLIC_KEY`](../../../../kconfig.md#CONFIG_BT_MESH_PROV_OOB_PUBLIC_KEY "CONFIG_BT_MESH_PROV_OOB_PUBLIC_KEY") needs to be enabled. The
application must provide public and private keys before the Provisioning
process is started by initializing pointers to
[`bt_mesh_prov.public_key_be`](#c.bt_mesh_prov.public_key_be)
and [`bt_mesh_prov.private_key_be`](#c.bt_mesh_prov.private_key_be). The keys needs to be
provided in big-endian bytes order.

To provide the device’s public key obtained via OOB,
call [`bt_mesh_prov_remote_pub_key_set()`](#c.bt_mesh_prov_remote_pub_key_set) on the provisioner side.

### Authentication

After the initial exchange, the provisioner selects an Out of Band (OOB)
Authentication method. This allows the user to confirm that the device the
provisioner connected to is actually the device they intended, and not a
malicious third party.

The Provisioning API supports the following authentication methods for the
provisionee:

- **Static OOB:** An authentication value is assigned to the device in
  production, which the provisioner can query in some application specific
  way.
- **Input OOB:** The user inputs the authentication value. The available input
  actions are listed in [`bt_mesh_input_action_t`](#c.bt_mesh_input_action_t).
- **Output OOB:** Show the user the authentication value. The available output
  actions are listed in [`bt_mesh_output_action_t`](#c.bt_mesh_output_action_t).

The application must provide callbacks for the supported authentication
methods in [`bt_mesh_prov`](#c.bt_mesh_prov), as well as enabling the supported actions
in [`bt_mesh_prov.output_actions`](#c.bt_mesh_prov.output_actions) and
[`bt_mesh_prov.input_actions`](#c.bt_mesh_prov.input_actions).

When an Output OOB action is selected, the authentication value should be
presented to the user when the output callback is called, and remain until the
[`bt_mesh_prov.input_complete`](#c.bt_mesh_prov.input_complete) or [`bt_mesh_prov.complete`](#c.bt_mesh_prov.complete)
callback is called. If the action is `blink`, `beep` or `vibrate`, the
sequence should be repeated after a delay of three seconds or more.

When an Input OOB action is selected, the user should be prompted when the
application receives the [`bt_mesh_prov.input`](#c.bt_mesh_prov.input) callback. The user
response should be fed back to the Provisioning API through
[`bt_mesh_input_string()`](#c.bt_mesh_input_string) or [`bt_mesh_input_number()`](#c.bt_mesh_input_number). If
no user response is recorded within 60 seconds, the Provisioning process is
aborted.

If Provisionee wants to mandate OOB authentication, it is mandatory to use
the BT\_MESH\_ECDH\_P256\_HMAC\_SHA256\_AES\_CCM algorithm.

### Data transfer

After the device has been successfully authenticated, the provisioner
transfers the Provisioning data:

- Unicast address
- A network key
- IV index
- Network flags

  - Key refresh
  - IV update

Additionally, a device key is generated for the node. All this data is stored
by the mesh stack, and the provisioning [`bt_mesh_prov.complete`](#c.bt_mesh_prov.complete)
callback gets called.

## Provisioning security

Depending on the choice of public key exchange mechanism and authentication method,
the provisioning process can be secure or insecure.

On May 24th 2021, ANSSI [disclosed](https://kb.cert.org/vuls/id/799380)
a set of vulnerabilities in the Bluetooth Mesh provisioning protocol that showcased
how the low entropy provided by the Blink, Vibrate, Push, Twist and
Input/Output numeric OOB methods could be exploited in impersonation and MITM
attacks. In response, the Bluetooth SIG has reclassified these OOB methods as
insecure in the Bluetooth Mesh Profile Specification v1.0.1 [erratum 16350](https://www.bluetooth.org/docman/handlers/DownloadDoc.ashx?doc_id=516072),
as AuthValue may be brute forced in real time. To ensure secure provisioning, applications
should use a static OOB value and OOB public key transfer.

## API reference

*group* Provisioning
:   Provisioning.

    Enums

    enum [anonymous]
    :   Available authentication algorithms.

        *Values:*

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_AUTH\_CMAC\_AES128\_AES\_CCM

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_AUTH\_HMAC\_SHA256\_AES\_CCM

    enum [anonymous]
    :   OOB Type field values.

        *Values:*

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_STATIC\_OOB\_AVAILABLE = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(0)
        :   Static OOB information available.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_OOB\_AUTH\_REQUIRED = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(1)
        :   OOB authentication required.

    enum bt\_mesh\_output\_action\_t
    :   Available Provisioning output authentication actions.

        *Values:*

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_NO\_OUTPUT = 0

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_BLINK = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(0)
        :   Blink.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_BEEP = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(1)
        :   Beep.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_VIBRATE = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(2)
        :   Vibrate.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_DISPLAY\_NUMBER = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(3)
        :   Output numeric.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_DISPLAY\_STRING = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(4)
        :   Output alphanumeric.

    enum bt\_mesh\_input\_action\_t
    :   Available Provisioning input authentication actions.

        *Values:*

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_NO\_INPUT = 0

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PUSH = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(0)
        :   Push.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_TWIST = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(1)
        :   Twist.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_ENTER\_NUMBER = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(2)
        :   Input number.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_ENTER\_STRING = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(3)
        :   Input alphanumeric.

    enum bt\_mesh\_prov\_bearer\_t
    :   Available Provisioning bearers.

        *Values:*

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_ADV = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(0)
        :   PB-ADV bearer.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_GATT = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(1)
        :   PB-GATT bearer.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_REMOTE = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(2)
        :   PB-Remote bearer.

    enum bt\_mesh\_prov\_oob\_info\_t
    :   Out of Band information location.

        *Values:*

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_OOB\_OTHER = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(0)
        :   Other.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_OOB\_URI = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(1)
        :   Electronic / URI.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_OOB\_2D\_CODE = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(2)
        :   2D machine-readable code

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_OOB\_BAR\_CODE = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(3)
        :   Bar Code.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_OOB\_NFC = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(4)
        :   Near Field Communication (NFC).

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_OOB\_NUMBER = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(5)
        :   Number.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_OOB\_STRING = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(6)
        :   String.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_OOB\_CERTIFICATE = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(7)
        :   Support for certificate-based provisioning.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_OOB\_RECORDS = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(8)
        :   Support for provisioning records.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_OOB\_ON\_BOX = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(11)
        :   On box.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_OOB\_IN\_BOX = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(12)
        :   Inside box.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_OOB\_ON\_PAPER = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(13)
        :   On piece of paper.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_OOB\_IN\_MANUAL = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(14)
        :   Inside manual.

        enumerator BT\_MESH\_PROV\_OOB\_ON\_DEV = [BIT](../../../../kernel/util/index.md#c.BIT "BIT")(15)
        :   On device.

    Functions

    int bt\_mesh\_input\_string(const char \*str)
    :   Provide provisioning input OOB string.

        This is intended to be called after the [bt\_mesh\_prov](#structbt__mesh__prov) input callback has been called with BT\_MESH\_ENTER\_STRING as the action.

        Parameters:
        :   - **str** – String.

        Returns:
        :   Zero on success or (negative) error code otherwise.

    int bt\_mesh\_input\_number(uint32\_t num)
    :   Provide provisioning input OOB number.

        This is intended to be called after the [bt\_mesh\_prov](#structbt__mesh__prov) input callback has been called with BT\_MESH\_ENTER\_NUMBER as the action.

        Parameters:
        :   - **num** – Number.

        Returns:
        :   Zero on success or (negative) error code otherwise.

    int bt\_mesh\_prov\_remote\_pub\_key\_set(const uint8\_t public\_key[64])
    :   Provide Device public key.

        Parameters:
        :   - **public\_key** – Device public key in big-endian.

        Returns:
        :   Zero on success or (negative) error code otherwise.

    int bt\_mesh\_auth\_method\_set\_input([bt\_mesh\_input\_action\_t](#c.bt_mesh_input_action_t) action, uint8\_t size)
    :   Use Input OOB authentication.

        Provisioner only.

        Instruct the unprovisioned device to use the specified Input OOB authentication action. When using [BT\_MESH\_PUSH](#group__bt__mesh__prov_1ggaf71f3dbdef6b8c085e9a4f068e1f60c5ae4902ce51142fa49d2d5e97165d6f51c), [BT\_MESH\_TWIST](#group__bt__mesh__prov_1ggaf71f3dbdef6b8c085e9a4f068e1f60c5ad6f22211d09614181cb5b0f42300a9ee) or [BT\_MESH\_ENTER\_NUMBER](#group__bt__mesh__prov_1ggaf71f3dbdef6b8c085e9a4f068e1f60c5aa0de3817e863d1f06888100de24fb4b0), the [bt\_mesh\_prov::output\_number](#structbt__mesh__prov_1af5c30f061ba8b0a713a3d54068dd68cc) callback is called with a random number that has to be entered on the unprovisioned device.

        When using [BT\_MESH\_ENTER\_STRING](#group__bt__mesh__prov_1ggaf71f3dbdef6b8c085e9a4f068e1f60c5a5d6bd8e6110c8f53245840aead4201c2), the [bt\_mesh\_prov::output\_string](#structbt__mesh__prov_1a28284efee6478637446702d7839f6b8c) callback is called with a random string that has to be entered on the unprovisioned device.

        Parameters:
        :   - **action** – Authentication action used by the unprovisioned device.
            - **size** – Authentication size.

        Returns:
        :   Zero on success or (negative) error code otherwise.

    int bt\_mesh\_auth\_method\_set\_output([bt\_mesh\_output\_action\_t](#c.bt_mesh_output_action_t) action, uint8\_t size)
    :   Use Output OOB authentication.

        Provisioner only.

        Instruct the unprovisioned device to use the specified Output OOB authentication action. The [bt\_mesh\_prov::input](#structbt__mesh__prov_1a31eff9c903ac721bbca7ab586dda9e80) callback will be called.

        When using [BT\_MESH\_BLINK](#group__bt__mesh__prov_1gga5512b81ef7eeb45b0a12ef62234c8795ac38333011b4f76b036a04e41f1f71e83), [BT\_MESH\_BEEP](#group__bt__mesh__prov_1gga5512b81ef7eeb45b0a12ef62234c8795ae50031a39d19181df17ee6de1a12272c), [BT\_MESH\_VIBRATE](#group__bt__mesh__prov_1gga5512b81ef7eeb45b0a12ef62234c8795ab45021af96db0465f5edc6e0ea7b6079) or [BT\_MESH\_DISPLAY\_NUMBER](#group__bt__mesh__prov_1gga5512b81ef7eeb45b0a12ef62234c8795a3586ffa3e36247e0d90b83c3f075e591), and the application has to call [bt\_mesh\_input\_number](#group__bt__mesh__prov_1gace8cbf2a6e9144d3118054f234de02ef) with the random number indicated by the unprovisioned device.

        When using [BT\_MESH\_DISPLAY\_STRING](#group__bt__mesh__prov_1gga5512b81ef7eeb45b0a12ef62234c8795aa07d600f2afe278729bb4e35d41bf29b), the application has to call [bt\_mesh\_input\_string](#group__bt__mesh__prov_1ga2592abf429b40ef9242bce26f5bd085e) with the random string displayed by the unprovisioned device.

        Parameters:
        :   - **action** – Authentication action used by the unprovisioned device.
            - **size** – Authentication size.

        Returns:
        :   Zero on success or (negative) error code otherwise.

    int bt\_mesh\_auth\_method\_set\_static(const uint8\_t \*static\_val, uint8\_t size)
    :   Use static OOB authentication.

        Provisioner only.

        Instruct the unprovisioned device to use static OOB authentication, and use the given static authentication value when provisioning.

        Parameters:
        :   - **static\_val** – Static OOB value.
            - **size** – Static OOB value size.

        Returns:
        :   Zero on success or (negative) error code otherwise.

    int bt\_mesh\_auth\_method\_set\_none(void)
    :   Don’t use OOB authentication.

        Provisioner only.

        Don’t use any authentication when provisioning new devices. This is the default behavior.

        Warning

        Not using any authentication exposes the mesh network to impersonation attacks, where attackers can pretend to be the unprovisioned device to gain access to the network. Authentication is strongly encouraged.

        Returns:
        :   Zero on success or (negative) error code otherwise.

    int bt\_mesh\_prov\_enable([bt\_mesh\_prov\_bearer\_t](#c.bt_mesh_prov_bearer_t) bearers)
    :   Enable specific provisioning bearers.

        Enable one or more provisioning bearers.

        Parameters:
        :   - **bearers** – Bit-wise or of provisioning bearers.

        Returns:
        :   Zero on success or (negative) error code otherwise.

    int bt\_mesh\_prov\_disable([bt\_mesh\_prov\_bearer\_t](#c.bt_mesh_prov_bearer_t) bearers)
    :   Disable specific provisioning bearers.

        Disable one or more provisioning bearers.

        Parameters:
        :   - **bearers** – Bit-wise or of provisioning bearers.

        Returns:
        :   Zero on success or (negative) error code otherwise.

    int bt\_mesh\_provision(const uint8\_t net\_key[16], uint16\_t net\_idx, uint8\_t flags, uint32\_t iv\_index, uint16\_t addr, const uint8\_t dev\_key[16])
    :   Provision the local Mesh Node.

        This API should normally not be used directly by the application. The only exception is for testing purposes where manual provisioning is desired without an actual external provisioner.

        Parameters:
        :   - **net\_key** – Network Key
            - **net\_idx** – Network Key Index
            - **flags** – Provisioning Flags
            - **iv\_index** – IV Index
            - **addr** – Primary element address
            - **dev\_key** – Device Key

        Returns:
        :   Zero on success or (negative) error code otherwise.

    int bt\_mesh\_provision\_adv(const uint8\_t uuid[16], uint16\_t net\_idx, uint16\_t addr, uint8\_t attention\_duration)
    :   Provision a Mesh Node using PB-ADV.

        Parameters:
        :   - **uuid** – UUID
            - **net\_idx** – Network Key Index
            - **addr** – Address to assign to remote device. If addr is 0, the lowest available address will be chosen.
            - **attention\_duration** – The attention duration to be send to remote device

        Returns:
        :   Zero on success or (negative) error code otherwise.

    int bt\_mesh\_provision\_gatt(const uint8\_t uuid[16], uint16\_t net\_idx, uint16\_t addr, uint8\_t attention\_duration)
    :   Provision a Mesh Node using PB-GATT.

        Parameters:
        :   - **uuid** – UUID
            - **net\_idx** – Network Key Index
            - **addr** – Address to assign to remote device. If addr is 0, the lowest available address will be chosen.
            - **attention\_duration** – The attention duration to be send to remote device

        Returns:
        :   Zero on success or (negative) error code otherwise.

    int bt\_mesh\_provision\_remote(struct [bt\_mesh\_rpr\_cli](rpr_cli.md#c.bt_mesh_rpr_cli "bt_mesh_rpr_cli") \*cli, const struct bt\_mesh\_rpr\_node \*srv, const uint8\_t uuid[16], uint16\_t net\_idx, uint16\_t addr)
    :   Provision a Mesh Node using PB-Remote.

        Parameters:
        :   - **cli** – Remote Provisioning Client Model to provision with.
            - **srv** – Remote Provisioning Server that should be used to tunnel the provisioning.
            - **uuid** – UUID of the unprovisioned node
            - **net\_idx** – Network Key Index to give to the unprovisioned node.
            - **addr** – Address to assign to remote device. If addr is 0, the lowest available address will be chosen.

        Returns:
        :   Zero on success or (negative) error code otherwise.

    int bt\_mesh\_reprovision\_remote(struct [bt\_mesh\_rpr\_cli](rpr_cli.md#c.bt_mesh_rpr_cli "bt_mesh_rpr_cli") \*cli, struct bt\_mesh\_rpr\_node \*srv, uint16\_t addr, bool comp\_change)
    :   Reprovision a Mesh Node using PB-Remote.

        Reprovisioning can be used to change the device key, unicast address and composition data of another device. The reprovisioning procedure uses the same protocol as normal provisioning, with the same level of security.

        There are three tiers of reprovisioning:

        1. Refreshing the device key
        2. Refreshing the device key and node address. Composition data may change, including the number of elements.
        3. Refreshing the device key and composition data, in case the composition data of the target node changed due to a firmware update or a similar procedure.

        The target node indicates that its composition data changed by instantiating its composition data page 128. If the number of elements have changed, it may be necessary to move the unicast address of the target node as well, to avoid overlapping addresses.

        Note

        Changing the unicast addresses of the target node requires changes to all nodes that publish directly to any of the target node’s models.

        Parameters:
        :   - **cli** – Remote Provisioning Client Model to provision on
            - **srv** – Remote Provisioning Server to reprovision
            - **addr** – Address to assign to remote device. If addr is 0, the lowest available address will be chosen.
            - **comp\_change** – The target node has indicated that its composition data has changed. Note that the target node will reject the update if this isn’t true.

        Returns:
        :   Zero on success or (negative) error code otherwise.

    bool bt\_mesh\_is\_provisioned(void)
    :   Check if the local node has been provisioned.

        This API can be used to check if the local node has been provisioned or not. It can e.g. be helpful to determine if there was a stored network in flash, i.e. if the network was restored after calling [settings\_load()](../../../../services/settings/index.md#group__settings_1ga89c6d618df81f197cc5c1a2018b00648).

        Returns:
        :   True if the node is provisioned. False otherwise.

    struct bt\_mesh\_dev\_capabilities
    :   *#include <main.h>*

        Device Capabilities.

        Public Members

        uint8\_t elem\_count
        :   Number of elements supported by the device.

        uint16\_t algorithms
        :   Supported algorithms and other capabilities.

        uint8\_t pub\_key\_type
        :   Supported public key types.

        uint8\_t oob\_type
        :   Supported OOB Types.

        [bt\_mesh\_output\_action\_t](#c.bt_mesh_output_action_t) output\_actions
        :   Supported Output OOB Actions.

        [bt\_mesh\_input\_action\_t](#c.bt_mesh_input_action_t) input\_actions
        :   Supported Input OOB Actions.

        uint8\_t output\_size
        :   Maximum size of Output OOB supported.

        uint8\_t input\_size
        :   Maximum size in octets of Input OOB supported.

    struct bt\_mesh\_prov
    :   *#include <main.h>*

        Provisioning properties & capabilities.

        Public Members

        const uint8\_t \*uuid
        :   The UUID that’s used when advertising as unprovisioned.

        const char \*uri
        :   Optional URI.

            This will be advertised separately from the unprovisioned beacon, however the unprovisioned beacon will contain a hash of it so the two can be associated by the provisioner.

        [bt\_mesh\_prov\_oob\_info\_t](#c.bt_mesh_prov_oob_info_t) oob\_info
        :   Out of Band information field.

        const uint8\_t \*public\_key\_be
        :   Pointer to Public Key in big-endian for OOB public key type support.

            Remember to enable  [`CONFIG_BT_MESH_PROV_OOB_PUBLIC_KEY`](../../../../kconfig.md#CONFIG_BT_MESH_PROV_OOB_PUBLIC_KEY "CONFIG_BT_MESH_PROV_OOB_PUBLIC_KEY") when initializing this parameter.

            Must be used together with [bt\_mesh\_prov::private\_key\_be](#structbt__mesh__prov_1a1ab714e9be35242e02099884c3af45f5).

        const uint8\_t \*private\_key\_be
        :   Pointer to Private Key in big-endian for OOB public key type support.

            Remember to enable  [`CONFIG_BT_MESH_PROV_OOB_PUBLIC_KEY`](../../../../kconfig.md#CONFIG_BT_MESH_PROV_OOB_PUBLIC_KEY "CONFIG_BT_MESH_PROV_OOB_PUBLIC_KEY") when initializing this parameter.

            Must be used together with [bt\_mesh\_prov::public\_key\_be](#structbt__mesh__prov_1a1261ba69e785f005d5834ac49da00778).

        const uint8\_t \*static\_val
        :   Static OOB value.

        uint8\_t static\_val\_len
        :   Static OOB value length.

        uint8\_t output\_size
        :   Maximum size of Output OOB supported.

        uint16\_t output\_actions
        :   Supported Output OOB Actions.

        uint8\_t input\_size
        :   Maximum size of Input OOB supported.

        uint16\_t input\_actions
        :   Supported Input OOB Actions.

        void (\*capabilities)(const struct [bt\_mesh\_dev\_capabilities](#c.bt_mesh_dev_capabilities) \*cap)
        :   Provisioning Capabilities.

            This callback notifies the application that the provisioning capabilities of the unprovisioned device has been received.

            The application can consequently call bt\_mesh\_auth\_method\_set\_<\*> to select suitable provisioning oob authentication method.

            When this callback returns, the provisioner will start authentication with the chosen method.

            Param cap:
            :   capabilities supported by device.

        int (\*output\_number)([bt\_mesh\_output\_action\_t](#c.bt_mesh_output_action_t) act, uint32\_t num)
        :   Output of a number is requested.

            This callback notifies the application that it should output the given number using the given action.

            Param act:
            :   Action for outputting the number.

            Param num:
            :   Number to be outputted.

            Return:
            :   Zero on success or negative error code otherwise

        int (\*output\_string)(const char \*str)
        :   Output of a string is requested.

            This callback notifies the application that it should display the given string to the user.

            Param str:
            :   String to be displayed.

            Return:
            :   Zero on success or negative error code otherwise

        int (\*input)([bt\_mesh\_input\_action\_t](#c.bt_mesh_input_action_t) act, uint8\_t size)
        :   Input is requested.

            This callback notifies the application that it should request input from the user using the given action. The requested input will either be a string or a number, and the application needs to consequently call the [bt\_mesh\_input\_string()](#group__bt__mesh__prov_1ga2592abf429b40ef9242bce26f5bd085e) or [bt\_mesh\_input\_number()](#group__bt__mesh__prov_1gace8cbf2a6e9144d3118054f234de02ef) functions once the data has been acquired from the user.

            Param act:
            :   Action for inputting data.

            Param num:
            :   Maximum size of the inputted data.

            Return:
            :   Zero on success or negative error code otherwise

        void (\*input\_complete)(void)
        :   The other device finished their OOB input.

            This callback notifies the application that it should stop displaying its output OOB value, as the other party finished their OOB input.

        void (\*unprovisioned\_beacon)(uint8\_t uuid[16], [bt\_mesh\_prov\_oob\_info\_t](#c.bt_mesh_prov_oob_info_t) oob\_info, uint32\_t \*uri\_hash)
        :   Unprovisioned beacon has been received.

            This callback notifies the application that an unprovisioned beacon has been received.

            Param uuid:
            :   UUID

            Param oob\_info:
            :   OOB Information

            Param uri\_hash:
            :   Pointer to URI Hash value. NULL if no hash was present in the beacon.

        void (\*unprovisioned\_beacon\_gatt)(uint8\_t uuid[16], [bt\_mesh\_prov\_oob\_info\_t](#c.bt_mesh_prov_oob_info_t) oob\_info)
        :   PB-GATT Unprovisioned Advertising has been received.

            This callback notifies the application that an PB-GATT unprovisioned Advertising has been received.

            Param uuid:
            :   UUID

            Param oob\_info:
            :   OOB Information

        void (\*link\_open)([bt\_mesh\_prov\_bearer\_t](#c.bt_mesh_prov_bearer_t) bearer)
        :   Provisioning link has been opened.

            This callback notifies the application that a provisioning link has been opened on the given provisioning bearer.

            Param bearer:
            :   Provisioning bearer.

        void (\*link\_close)([bt\_mesh\_prov\_bearer\_t](#c.bt_mesh_prov_bearer_t) bearer)
        :   Provisioning link has been closed.

            This callback notifies the application that a provisioning link has been closed on the given provisioning bearer.

            Param bearer:
            :   Provisioning bearer.

        void (\*complete)(uint16\_t net\_idx, uint16\_t addr)
        :   Provisioning is complete.

            This callback notifies the application that provisioning has been successfully completed, and that the local node has been assigned the specified NetKeyIndex and primary element address.

            Param net\_idx:
            :   NetKeyIndex given during provisioning.

            Param addr:
            :   Primary element address.

        void (\*reprovisioned)(uint16\_t addr)
        :   Local node has been reprovisioned.

            This callback notifies the application that reprovisioning has been successfully completed.

            Param addr:
            :   New primary element address.

        void (\*node\_added)(uint16\_t net\_idx, uint8\_t uuid[16], uint16\_t addr, uint8\_t num\_elem)
        :   A new node has been added to the provisioning database.

            This callback notifies the application that provisioning has been successfully completed, and that a node has been assigned the specified NetKeyIndex and primary element address.

            Param net\_idx:
            :   NetKeyIndex given during provisioning.

            Param uuid:
            :   UUID of the added node

            Param addr:
            :   Primary element address.

            Param num\_elem:
            :   Number of elements that this node has.

        void (\*reset)(void)
        :   Node has been reset.

            This callback notifies the application that the local node has been reset and needs to be provisioned again. The node will not automatically advertise as unprovisioned, rather the [bt\_mesh\_prov\_enable()](#group__bt__mesh__prov_1ga6c8dc1b09d4cde8738be83c992b860a9) API needs to be called to enable unprovisioned advertising on one or more provisioning bearers.
